TITLE:
Indinavir Plus Efavirenz Plus Adefovir Dipivoxil in HIV-Infected Patients Who Have Not Had Success With Nelfinavir

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Indinavir sulfate

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of giving indinavir plus efavirenz
      plus adefovir dipivoxil to patients who have failed treatment with nelfinavir and patients
      who have never taken a protease inhibitor (PI). Effectiveness is measured by the number of
      patients who have a viral load (level of HIV in the blood) below 400 copies/ml after 48
      weeks of treatment.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      In this open-label, nonrandomized study, 120 HIV-infected patients are stratified into two
      groups: failed nelfinavir vs protease inhibitor-naive. All patients receive indinavir plus
      efavirenz plus adefovir dipivoxil plus and L-carnitine, orally. Plasma vRNA is measured
      every 4 weeks until Week 16, then every 8 weeks for the remainder of the 48-week study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  Serologically documented HIV infection.

          -  Baseline CD4 count greater than or equal to 50 cells and vRNA greater than or equal
             to 10,000 copies/ml.

          -  Parental consent for patients under 18.

        Nelfinavir-Failure Group:

          -  Must have protease inhibitor experience solely with nelfinavir and be considered
             drug-adherent.

          -  Must be candidate for changing therapy because of virologic failure and be receiving
             nelfinavir at entry (at least 16 weeks of nelfinavir plus NRTI therapy with at least
             a 10-fold decline in vRNA due to nelfinavir therapy and a subsequent increase toward
             the patient's baseline vRNA of at least 10-fold).

        Control Group:

          -  Must have received any combination of currently licensed nucleoside reverse
             transcriptase inhibitors for at least 16 weeks.

          -  Must be naive to efavirenz, adefovir dipivoxil, and other NRTI's.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

        Control group:

          -  Prior efavirenz, adefovir dipivoxil, or other non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase
             inhibitors.

        Required:

        Nelfinavir-failure patients:

          -  At least 16 weeks of nelfinavir.

        Control group:

          -  At least 16 weeks of any combination of currently licensed nucleoside reverse
             transcriptase inhibitors.
      
