TITLE:
A Phase I/II Clinical Study of WF 10 IV Solution ( TCDO ) in Patients With HIV Infection

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
WF10

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the clinical toxicity, safety, and MTD of WF 10 ( TCDO ) intravenous solution
      administered to patients with HIV infection. To evaluate the potential anti-HIV activity of
      TCDO.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Required:

          -  Aerosolized pentamidine (300 mg monthly) as prophylaxis for PCP only in patients with
             CD4 count <= 200 cells/mm3.

        Allowed:

          -  PCP prophylaxis with aerosolized pentamidine in patients with CD4 count > 200
             cells/mm3, only at the discretion of the treating physician.

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV positivity.

          -  Absolute CD4 count of 150 - 500 cells/mm3.

          -  At least 6 months of prior zidovudine therapy.

          -  No active opportunistic infection requiring ongoing therapy.

          -  Life expectancy of at least 6 months.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Neoplasm other than basal cell carcinoma of the skin.

          -  Clinically significant cardiac disease.

          -  Abnormal neurological status by a standardized assessment including strength, reflex
             testing, and sensory testing.

          -  Unwilling to comply with protocol requirements.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

        History of myocardial infarction or arrhythmias.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 2 weeks prior to study entry:

          -  Antiretroviral agent or interferon.

          -  Systemic biologic response modifiers, corticosteroids, cytotoxic chemotherapeutic
             agents, or other drugs that can cause neutropenia or significant nephrotoxicity.

          -  Rifampin or rifampin derivatives.

          -  Systemic anti-infectives.

        Required:

          -  At least 6 months of prior zidovudine. Active drug or alcohol abuse.
      
