TITLE:
Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage I or Stage II Prostate Cancer

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
high-LET heavy ion therapy

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to damage tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of conventional radiation
      therapy with high-dose radiation therapy in treating men with stage I or stage II prostate
      cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine whether high-dose radiotherapy using conformal photons with a
      proton boost produces a 20% increase in the proportion of Stage I/II prostate cancer free
      from local failure and biochemical relapse at 5 years when compared to results of
      conventional-dose radiotherapy. II. Determine whether high-dose radiotherapy produces a 33%
      reduction in the cumulative incidence of a rising PSA (second hormone failure) following
      hormone therapy given at the time of first PSA/clinical failure when compared with
      conventional-dose radiotherapy. IV. Assess the relative rectal, bladder, and sexual
      morbidity of conformal photon doses of 70.2 and 79.2 Gy in these patients. V. Collect, in a
      prospective manner, paraffin biopsy blocks for subsequent analysis of emerging molecular
      pathologic predictors of outcome in three patients.

      OUTLINE: Randomized study. Arm I: Radiotherapy. Boost to the prostate using high-LET protons
      followed by irradiation of the prostate, periprostatic tissues, and seminal vesicles using
      conformal photons with energies greater than 6 MV. Conventional dose. Arm II: Radiotherapy.
      As in Arm I. High dose.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: There will be 390 patients accrued into this study over 3 years. An
      additional 3.5 years will be required for follow-up.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the prostate Primary
        tumor confined to prostate TNM clinical Stages T1b-c or T2a-b No T1a No T1b-c tumor with
        Gleason grade 1-2/5 No Gleason grade 1-2/5 and PSA less than 4 ng/mL Nodes negative on
        imaging (Nx) or by surgical sampling (N0) PSA no greater than 15 ng/mL Treatment must
        begin within 28 days after randomization

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: Any age Performance status: Karnofsky 70%-100% Life
        expectancy: Greater than 10 years Other: No major medical or psychiatric illness that
        precludes protocol entry No prior or concurrent second malignancy within 5 years except
        basal cell skin cancer

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: No prior treatment for prostate cancer
      
