TITLE:
A Multi-Center Randomized Double-Blind Placebo-Controlled Study To Investigate the Effect of Isoprinosine in Immunodepressed Patients With Uncomplicated Generalized Lymphadenopathy

CONDITION:
Lymphatic Disease

INTERVENTION:
Inosine pranobex

SUMMARY:

      The objective of this Phase III, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in
      patients with immunologic deficiency is to determine the effect of isoprinosine in producing
      an immuno-restorative response within the study observation period (including the 2-month
      period following cessation of the 28 days of treatment), measured by one or more of the
      following immunologic parameters:

        -  Increase in natural killer (NK) cell activity.

        -  Increase in total T-cells (OKT-11).

        -  Increases in absolute number and percentages of T-helper cells (OKT-4).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Criteria:

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  History of gout, uric acid urolithiasis, uric acid nephrolithiasis, renal
             dysfunction, and severe gastric ulcer.

          -  Lymphoid malignancy.

          -  Infectious mononucleosis caused by cytomegalovirus (CMV) or Epstein-Barr virus (EBV).

          -  Heart disease (especially if receiving cardiac glycosides).

          -  Hemophilia.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Kaposi's sarcoma or overt opportunistic infections.

          -  Active evidence of infectious mononucleosis caused by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) or
             cytomegalovirus (CMV) as determined by heterophile test (EBV) or cell culture (CMV).

          -  A history of gout, uric acid urolithiasis, uric acid nephrolithiasis, renal
             dysfunction, and severe gastric ulcer.

          -  Critical illness.

          -  Condition requiring hospitalization.

          -  Women of childbearing age are excluded.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Steroids, cytotoxic immunosuppressive agents.

          -  Antiviral medicine.

          -  Excluded within 1 month of study entry:

          -  Immunomodulators (including Isoprinosine).

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Radiotherapy.

        Patients who have unexplained immunodepression and are at risk of developing AIDS.

          -  Patients with prolonged generalized lymphadenopathy for 3 or more months (greater
             than 1 cm at two or more noncontiguous sites).

        IV drug abuse.
      
