TITLE:
A Double-Blind Placebo Controlled Study To Determine the Optimal Immunopharmacological Dose Level of Isoprinosine in Immunodepressed Volunteers

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Inosine pranobex

SUMMARY:

      The objective of this double-blind placebo-controlled study is to evaluate the effect of
      Isoprinosine in a group of homogenous male volunteers who present with immunologic defects
      relative to:

        -  Comparison of total helper and suppressor T-cell number between the groups.

        -  Comparison of the phytohemagglutinins (PHA) and concanavalin A lymphoproliferative
           response and natural killer (NK) cell activity between the groups.

        -  Determination of the clinical course of the volunteers after discontinuance of
           Isoprinosine.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Opportunistic infections or Kaposi's sarcoma.

          -  Critical illness.

          -  History of gout, urolithiasis, nephrolithiasis, renal dysfunction, and severe gastric
             ulcer.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Steroids.

          -  Cytotoxic immunosuppressive agents.

        Concurrent Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Radiotherapy.

        The following are excluded:

          -  Opportunistic infections or Kaposi's sarcoma.

          -  Critically ill patients.

          -  Patients receiving steroids, cytotoxic immunosuppressive agents, and/or radiotherapy.

          -  Patients who have received any other immunotherapy.

          -  Patients with a history of gout, urolithiasis, nephrolithiasis, renal dysfunction,
             and severe gastric ulcer.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Any other immunotherapy.

        Patients who fall into the group which is at risk of developing cutaneous sarcoma and/or
        opportunistic diseases but at present have no signs or symptoms of these diseases.
      
