TITLE:
Evaluation of Breast Cancer Recurrence Rates Following Surgery in Women With Ductal Carcinoma In Situ

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
long-term screening

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: The evaluation of breast cancer recurrence rates may improve the ability to plan
      cancer treatment for patients with breast cancer.

      PURPOSE: Study to evaluate the rate of recurrence of breast cancer in women who have had
      surgery for ductal carcinoma in situ.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Evaluate actuarial local in situ and invasive recurrence rates at 5 and 10 years after
           local excision in women with a favorable ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) prognosis.

        -  Evaluate concordance between institutional pathologists and central review pathologists
           with respect to diagnosis and grading of DCIS.

        -  Identify parameters that indicate increased or decreased risk of recurrence in the
           absence of irradiation.

        -  Evaluate patterns of salvage of recurrence and rates of breast conservation.

        -  Evaluate actuarial relapse-free, overall, and cause-specific survival at 5 and 10 years
           post DCIS excision.

      OUTLINE: This is a registration study stratified by histologic grade (high vs low or
      intermediate) and adjuvant tamoxifen therapy (yes vs no).

      Patients receive standard clinical and mammographic follow-up for greater than 10 years. If
      recurrence occurs, treatment will be at the discretion of the investigators. Patients may
      receive adjuvant oral tamoxifen daily for 5 years after local excision.

      A follow up magnification view mammogram must be taken after the last local excision, and
      microcalcification must be negative.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for the first 10 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 1000 (500 per stratum) eligible and evaluable patients will be enrolled
      at an estimated accrual rate of 250 patients per year.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to 120 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically proven low or intermediate grade ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) of
             the breast

               -  No greater than 2.5 cm in the greatest dimension

          -  OR

          -  Histologically proven high-grade DCIS of the breast

               -  No greater than 1 cm in greatest dimension

          -  Region of DCIS must be at least 2.5 mm in greatest dimension (mammographic estimate
             of size allowed where pathologic measurement is impossible)

          -  DCIS must be non-palpable; detected by a mammogram or found incidentally by a breast
             biopsy

          -  Pathologically confirmed negative margins of at least 3 mm

          -  Breast must be suitable for breast conserving therapy

               -  Proper tumor size versus breast size

               -  No carcinoma or suspicious mammogram findings in other breast sites

          -  No prior in situ or invasive breast cancer

          -  Hormone receptor status:

               -  Not specified

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Sex:

          -  Female

        Menopausal status:

          -  Not specified

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy:

          -  Greater than 5 years

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Cardiovascular:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No other invasive malignancies within the past 10 years except nonmelanomatous skin
             cancer or carcinoma in situ of the cervix

          -  No known HIV infection

          -  No Paget's nipple disease

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Adjuvant tamoxifen allowed

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No prior radiotherapy to breast

          -  No adjuvant radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified
      
