TITLE:
Open-Label Program of Dideoxycytidine ( ddC ) to Be Used in Combination With Zidovudine ( AZT ) for Treatment of Advanced HIV Disease

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Zidovudine

SUMMARY:

      To provide zalcitabine ( dideoxycytidine; ddC ) for use with zidovudine ( AZT ) in patients
      with advanced HIV infection. To observe serious toxicities in this population.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients are treated with 1 of 2 doses of ddC administered orally (PO) in combination with
      AZT administered PO (patients who are unable to tolerate this dose of AZT may receive a
      lower dose).
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Concomitant use of investigational compounds for prophylaxis or treatment of
             opportunistic infections or other treatments provided use of those compounds with
             ddC-AZT is considered safe.

        Patients must have:

          -  Documented HIV infection OR documented AIDS-defining opportunistic infection or
             neoplasm.

          -  Previous AIDS-defining opportunistic infection, neoplasm, or condition OR CD4
             lymphocyte count equal to or less than 300 cells/mm3 if symptomatic ORCD4 lymphocyte
             count equal to or less than 200 cells/mm3 if asymptomatic.

          -  Patients must not be currently enrolled in or must be unable to enter an AIDS
             Clinical Trials Group (ACTG), Community Programs for Clinical Research on AIDS
             (CPCRA), or other controlled clinical program because of patient ineligibility,
             distance from trial site, or patient refusal.

          -  Patients currently enrolled in any controlled clinical trial of an anti-HIV compound
             may enter this program only if they have met the end points required for termination
             of that trial.

          -  Patients may be co-enrolled in clinical programs of investigational compounds being
             tested for prophylaxis or treatment of opportunistic infections or other treatments
             provided that program allows ddC-AZT combination use, and concomitant administration
             of the other investigational drug and ddC-AZT is considered safe by the investigator.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Any clinical or laboratory toxicity or abnormality, particularly the presence or
             history of moderate to severe peripheral neuropathy, that would pose an undue risk to
             the patient upon initiation of ddC-AZT treatment.

          -  Pregnancy.
      
