TITLE:
A Study of Rifabutin, Used Alone or With Ethambutol in the Prevention of Mycobacterium Avium Complex (MAC) Bacteremia in Patients With AIDS

CONDITION:
Mycobacterium Avium-Intracellulare Infection

INTERVENTION:
Ethambutol hydrochloride

SUMMARY:

      To optimize Mycobacterium avium Complex (MAC) prophylaxis in AIDS patients by measuring
      serum rifabutin levels and adjusting the dose accordingly. To combine rifabutin with
      ethambutol to examine the effect of combination therapy in preventing or delaying the
      incidence of MAC bacteremia in this patient population.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients are randomized to receive oral rifabutin alone or rifabutin/ethambutol daily for 12
      months, with possible continuation of medicine lifelong. Doses will be adjusted to maintain
      minimum blood levels of the drugs.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Required:

          -  AZT, d4T, ddI, or ddC.

          -  Antipneumocystis prophylaxis.

        Allowed:

          -  Short course (< 14 days) of ciprofloxacin for acute infections.

        Patients must have:

          -  AIDS.

          -  CD4 count <= 100 cells/mm3.

          -  NO prior or current MAC infection.

        Prior Medication:

        Required:

          -  Antipneumocystis prophylaxis for at least 4 weeks prior to study entry.

        Allowed:

          -  Prior rifabutin.

          -  Prior ethambutol.

          -  Prior clarithromycin.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Positive tuberculin skin test (PPD > 5 mm).

          -  Active M. tuberculosis.

          -  Perceived as unreliable or unavailable for frequent monitoring.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Other antiretrovirals not specifically allowed.

          -  All investigational drugs.

          -  Other antimycobacterial therapy, such as clarithromycin, azithromycin, rifampin,
             clofazimine, amikacin, streptomycin, isoniazid, cycloserine, ethionamide, and
             ciprofloxacin (>= 14 days).

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

        Known hypersensitivity to rifabutin, rifampin, or other rifamycins and/or ethambutol.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 4 weeks prior to study entry:

          -  Rifampin.

          -  Isoniazid.

          -  Clofazimine.

          -  Cycloserine.

          -  Ethionamide.

          -  Amikacin.

          -  Ciprofloxacin.
      
