TITLE:
The Safety and Effectiveness of U-90152 in HIV-1 Infected Patients Who Take Zidovudine

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Delavirdine mesylate

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the pharmacokinetics, safety, and tolerance of delavirdine mesylate ( U-90152 )
      after multiple doses given orally to asymptomatic HIV-1 positive patients who are maintained
      on a stable dose of zidovudine ( AZT ). To investigate the optimum dose regimen of U-90152
      that gives average trough concentrations > 1 micromolar in combination with standard AZT
      therapy, and to examine drug interactions between the two drugs. To establish the MTD of
      U-90152 in HIV-1 positive patients on stable AZT therapy. To investigate comparative
      pharmacokinetics between HIV-1 positive men and women.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Inhaled pentamidine following completion of the inpatient pharmacokinetic portion of
             the study.

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV-1 infection.

          -  CD4 count 200 - 500 cells/mm3.

          -  Maintenance on AZT for at least 6 weeks.

          -  No active opportunistic infections.

          -  Ability to swallow numerous tablets without difficulty.

          -  Ability to have blood samples drawn.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Acute medical problems, including opportunistic infections (such as active
             cryptococcosis, pneumocystis carinii, herpes zoster, histoplasmosis, CMV) and
             nonopportunistic diseases (liver and renal disease, orthostatic hypotension,
             hypertension, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, lymphoma, Kaposi's sarcoma,
             or other malignancy).

          -  Clinically significant hypersensitivity to piperazine type drugs (Antepar, Stelazine,
             and U-87201E).

          -  Negative EMIT drug screen or equivalent for drugs of abuse.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Antiretroviral agents other than AZT.

          -  Primary or secondary prophylactic medications for opportunistic infections (inhaled
             pentamidine is permitted following completion of the inpatient pharmacokinetic
             portion of the study).

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of clinically significant nervous system or muscle disease, seizure disorder,
             AIDS dementia, or psychotic disorder that might impair study compliance.

          -  History of clinically significant cardiovascular, renal, hepatic, cardiac, pulmonary,
             endocrine, hematologic, vascular, or collagen disease.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Prior U-87201E or other non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (nevirapine,
             TIBO, L-drugs, and HEPT).

          -  Antiretroviral agents (other than AZT) or immunomodulating agents within 15 days
             prior to study entry.

          -  Primary prophylactic drugs within 15 days prior to study entry.

          -  Any known enzyme-inducing drug or any enzyme-inhibiting agents, such as ketoconazole,
             fluconazole, rifampin, isoniazid, and cimetidine, within 15 days prior to study
             entry.

          -  Any investigational medication within 15 days prior to study entry. Unwilling to
             comply with safer sex practices. Active substance abuse. Alcohol consumption during
             the inpatient pharmacokinetic portion of the study.
      
