TITLE:
The Safety and Effectiveness of Retrovir in HIV-Infected Patients Who Have Problems Related to the Nervous System

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Zidovudine

SUMMARY:

      To assess the efficacy of Retrovir (AZT) therapy in the treatment of HIV Ab positive persons
      with impairments in neuropsychological functioning. To assess the safety, virologic, and
      immunologic effects of AZT therapy in HIV Ab positive persons with neuropsychological
      impairment but minimal other symptomatology.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Criteria:

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Neuropsychological (NP) impairments more severe than described in the Inclusion
             Criteria.

          -  Evidence of nervous system dysfunction being caused by factors other than HIV
             infection, including history of head trauma, multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, or
             presence of concurrent central nervous system (CNS) infections or neoplasms, e.g.,
             toxoplasmosis, primary or metastatic CNS lymphoma, progressive multifocal
             leukoencephalopathy, cryptococcal or other fungal meningitis, and CNS tuberculous
             infections.

          -  Lymphoma or other tumor requiring cytotoxic chemotherapy.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Other antiretroviral agents.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  AIDS or advanced ARC.

          -  Neuropsychological (NP) impairments more severe than described above; i.e., defective
             performance on NP test battery in 3 or more NP areas on the NP screening battery at 2
             standard deviations below the mean.

          -  Evidence of nervous system dysfunction being caused by factors other than HIV
             infection, including history of head trauma, multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, or
             presence of concurrent central nervous system (CNS) metastatic CNS lymphoma,
             progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, cryptococcal or other fungal meningitis,
             and CNS tuberculous infections.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Antiretroviral agents including zidovudine (AZT).

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded within 3 months of study entry:

          -  Blood transfusion.

        Impaired performance on a defined neuropsychological test battery.

          -  Asymptomatic HIV infection.

          -  Persistent generalized lymphadenopathy (PGL).

          -  Early AIDS related complex (ARC).

          -  Seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) demonstrated by positive ELISA
             test and confirmed by Western blot with no or minimal symptomatology or HIV
             infection.

          -  Ability to give informed consent or a person with durable power of attorney who can
             give informed consent.

          -  Willingness to be followed by the originating medical center for 1 year.

        History of drug or alcohol abuse.
      
