TITLE:
A Comparison of Saquinavir Hard- and Soft-Gelatin Capsules in HIV-Infected Patients

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Saquinavir

SUMMARY:

      To compare the antiviral activity, safety, and pharmacokinetics of saquinavir hard gel
      capsule (HGC) formulation, to 1 of 3 doses of saquinavir soft gel capsule (SGC) formulation
      administered orally every 8 hours for 4 weeks.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients are randomly assigned to one of the four treatment groups as follows:

      Group 1: 10 patients receive saquinavir HGC. Group 2: 10 patients receive saquinavir SGC.
      Group 3: 30 patients receive saquinavir SGC at an intermediate dose. Group 4: 30 patients
      receive saquinavir SGC at the highest study dose. Upon completion of the initial 4 weeks,
      all patients may have the option to continue their originally-assigned therapy as
      monotherapy unless significant drug toxicity intervenes. If the analysis of the initial 4
      week data identifies an optimal dose of saquinavir SGC, patients may have the option to
      change to this optimal dose in a treatment extension phase of the protocol. Patients in this
      extension phase may choose to remain on monotherapy unless they experience significant drug
      toxicity, their CD4 count or HIV-RNA levels return to baseline, until saquinavir is approved
      by the FDA or study termination, whichever comes first.

      NOTE: A washout >= 28 days is required for patients on antiretroviral therapy.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  CD4 count of 100 to 500 cells/mm3.

          -  Greater than 20,000 HIV-RNA copies/ml.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

        Prior treatment with protease inhibitors.

        Required:

          -  Less than 8 weeks prior antiretroviral treatment (For at least 25% of patients).

          -  At least 8 weeks prior antiretroviral treatment (For at least 25% of patients).
      
