TITLE:
Phase I-II Study of Fluorouracil in Combination With Phenylbutyrate in Advanced Colorectal Cancer

CONDITION:
Mucinous Adenocarcinoma of the Colon

INTERVENTION:
fluorouracil

SUMMARY:

      Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop
      growing or die. Interferon-gamma may interfere with the growth of tumor cells and slow the
      growth of the tumor. Combining more than one drug with interferon-gamma may kill more tumor
      cells. This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of giving
      fluorouracil together with phenylbutyrate, indomethacin, and interferon-gamma and to see how
      well it works in treating patients with stage IV colorectal cancer
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine in a Phase I study the toxicity of flurouracil (FU) when given in escalating
      doses in combination with fixed doses of phenlylbutyrate (PB), indomethacin and recombinant
      human interferon-gamma (rhIFNg) to patients with advanced colorectal cancer.

      II. To determine in a Phase II study the efficacy of FU in combination with PB, indomethacin
      and rhIFNg in patients with advanced colorectal cancer.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of fluorouracil (5-FU).

      Phase I: Patients receive 5-FU IV over 24 hours on day 1; phenylbutyrate IV over 120 hours
      and oral indomethacin daily on days 2-6; and interferon gamma subcutaneously on days 2, 4,
      and 6. Courses repeat weekly in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of 5-FU until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which less than 2 of 6 patients
      experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT).

      Phase II :Patients receive 5-FU, phenylbutyrate, indomethacin, and interferon gamma as in
      phase I at the MTD.

      Patients are followed for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 24 patients will be accrued for the phase I portion of this
      study and approximately 46 patients will be accrued for the phase II portion of this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Stage IV colorectal adenocarcinoma, excluding brain metastases

          -  Histological confirmation of colorectal adenocarcinoma

          -  Previously untreated patients

          -  Previously treated patients

               -  For the Phase I trial, no limitations

               -  For the Phase II trial, previous treated limited to adjuvant radiation and/or
                  chemotherapy which is completed at least 12 months before documentation of
                  metastatic disease; patients may not have received chemotherapy for metastatic
                  disease

          -  For the Phase I trial, patients may have measurable disease or unmeasurable disease;
             for the Phase II trial, patients must have measurable disease in at least two
             dimensions on x-rays, CT scan or MRI

          -  Expected survival of at least 16 weeks

          -  Performance status of >= 70% (Karnofsky)

          -  WBC >= 3000 uL

          -  Platelet count >= 100,000/uL

          -  Bilirubin =< 2 x ULN

          -  Creatinine =< 2 x ULN

          -  Not pregnant and not lactating; women of child bearing age must have negative
             pregnancy test (beta-hcg)

          -  No allergies to interferon-gamma or E.coli derived products

          -  No serious medical intercurrent medical illnesses, including Class III or IV
             cardiovascular disease; patient may not be dependent on immunosuppressive drugs
             including corticosteroids, and may not receive these drugs for the entire duration of
             the study

          -  No diarrhea, and with adequate oral intake

          -  Patients of child-bearing age and potential must agree to use adequate birth control
             other than oral contraceptives for the entire duration of the study

          -  No previous or concurrent malignancy except inactive nonmelanoma skin cancer, in situ
             carcinoma of the cervix, grade 1 bladder cancer, or other cancers if the patient has
             been disease free for >= 5 years

          -  Patients must be oriented and rational, and aware of the investigational nature of
             the study
      
