TITLE:
Radiation Therapy Plus Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Supratentorial Glioblastoma Multiforme

CONDITION:
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors

INTERVENTION:
carmustine

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Chemotherapy
      uses different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining
      radiation therapy with chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to study the effectiveness of radiation therapy and
      carmustine in treating patients who have supratentorial glioblastoma multiforme.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine whether the use of radiosurgery (stereotactic external-beam
      irradiation) prior to conventional radiotherapy with carmustine (BCNU) improves overall
      survival compared to conventional radiotherapy plus BCNU alone in patients with
      supratentorial glioblastoma multiforme. II. Determine and compare the frequency and severity
      of toxicities associated with these regimens. III. Compare the effects of these two regimens
      on neurologic function and quality of life.

      OUTLINE: Randomized study. Arm I: Radiotherapy plus Single-Agent Chemotherapy. Tumor
      irradiation using megavoltage equipment (at least 4 MV photons); plus Carmustine, BCNU,
      NSC-409962. Arm II: Radiosurgery followed by Radiotherapy plus Single-Agent Chemotherapy.
      Stereotactic tumor irradiation; followed by tumor irradiation as in Arm I; plus BCNU.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 200 patients will be entered over approximately 3 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histopathologically confirmed supratentorial glioblastoma
        multiforme or gliosarcoma Diagnosis by surgical biopsy or resection required The following
        tumor types are specifically excluded: Astrocytoma with atypical or anaplastic features
        Well differentiated astrocytomas Tumors originating in the brain stem Tumors located
        within 10 mm of the optic chiasm Infratentorial tumors Multifocal malignant glioma
        Recurrent malignant glioma Well circumscribed contrast-enhancing tumor on pre- and
        postoperative contrast-enhanced CT or MRI with a maximum diameter (in any direction) of 40
        mm required Tumors that do not enhance on postoperative CT or MRI excluded Concurrent
        enrollment on RTOG-9308 encouraged

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: Karnofsky 60-100% Life
        expectancy: At least 3 months Hematopoietic: ANC at least 1,500 Platelets at least 100,000
        Hb at least 10 g/dl (may transfuse) Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than 2.0 mg/dl SGOT or
        SGPT no greater than 2 x normal Renal: Creatinine no greater than 1.5 mg/dl BUN no greater
        than 25 mg/dl Pulmonary: Chest x-ray normal If abnormal or if there is a history of
        pulmonary disease, pulmonary function studies (including DLCO) must be at least 75% of
        predicted Other: Neurologic function status 0-3 No AIDS No major medical or psychiatric
        illness that would preclude protocol therapy or follow-up No second malignancy within 5
        years except: Nonmelanomatous skin cancer In situ carcinoma of the uterine cervix

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: No prior
        chemotherapy Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: No prior radiotherapy to the
        head and neck Surgery: No more than 5 weeks between surgery and initiation of treatment
        Recovery from surgery and any postoperative complications required
      
