TITLE:
An Expanded Access Open Label Protocol of Remune (HIV-1 Immunogen) in HIV-1-Infected Adults With CD4 Count 550 Cells /Ml and Greater.

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
HIV-1 Immunogen

SUMMARY:

      To provide an alternative therapy to HIV-infected patients for whom there is no comparable
      or satisfactory alternative drug or therapy available.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV-1 seropositivity.

          -  CD4 counts >= 550 cells/ml.

        NOTE:

          -  If a patient's CD4 count is 550 to 600 cells/ml, the patient must either rescreen
             within 30 days for Study 806 or wait 6 months before entering the expanded access
             program.

          -  Patient must have failed or been intolerant to other comparable or alternative
             marketed therapies or must not be a candidate for such therapies.

          -  Patient must not meet inclusion criteria for other Remune trials.

          -  Patient must have laboratory tests within specified limits.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms and conditions are excluded:

          -  Clinically significant cardiac, hepatic, renal or gastrointestinal dysfunction.

          -  Current participation in a Remune study.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Use of any immune-modulating drugs.

          -  Induction therapy or initiation of new treatment regimen for an AIDS-defining
             condition.

          -  Current participation in a Remune study.

        Patients with any of the following prior conditions are excluded:

        Previous participation in a Remune study.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Previous participation in a Remune study.

        Excluded within 30 days of study entry:

          -  Use of any immune-modulating drugs.

          -  Induction therapy or initiation of new treatment regimen for an AIDS-defining
             condition within 30 days of Day 1 visit.
      
