TITLE:
Photodynamic Therapy With Porfimer Sodium in Treating Patients With Refractory Brain Tumors

CONDITION:
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors

INTERVENTION:
verteporfin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Photodynamic therapy uses light and photosensitizing drugs to kill tumor cells
      and may be an effective treatment for refractory brain tumors.

      PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of photodynamic
      therapy using porfimer sodium in treating patients with refractory brain tumors, including
      astrocytoma, ependymoma, and medulloblastoma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of benzoporphyrin monoacid ring A in patients with
           refractory brain tumors undergoing cavitary photoillumination photodynamic therapy.

        -  Determine the effect of this regimen on neurotoxicity, clinical state, imaging changes,
           and survival of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are stratified according to tumor
      location (posterior fossa tumors vs all other brain tumors).

      Patients receive benzoporphyrin monoacid ring A (BPD-MA) IV preoperatively. Approximately 3
      hours after BPD-MA administration, patients undergo craniotomy with photoillumination of the
      tumor. Patients with tumors greater than 2 cm in diameter also undergo gross tumor
      resection.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of BPD-MA until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose immediately preceding that at which 2 of
      3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Three additional patients are
      treated at the MTD.

      Patients are followed at 4 and 6 weeks, every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1
      year, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A minimum of 24 patients will be accrued for this study within 3 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 3 Years to 70 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of supratentorial or infratentorial brain tumor

               -  Localized, non-disseminated

               -  Primary tumor or solitary metastasis

               -  Recurrent or progressive

               -  Unresectable

               -  Negative CSF

          -  Must have failed standard therapy including radiotherapy

          -  Measurable disease as evidenced by CT scan or MRI

               -  Single or multiple masses accessible to light administration

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  3 to 70

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 2 months

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,000/mm3

          -  May transfuse platelets

        Hepatic:

          -  PT and PTT normal

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  At least 6 weeks since prior chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No prior brachytherapy

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Other:

          -  No other concurrent antitumor therapy
      
