TITLE:
Phase I Study of the Clinical Pharmacology of Azithromycin in Buffy Coat of HIV-Infected Subjects.

CONDITION:
Bacterial Infections

INTERVENTION:
Azithromycin

SUMMARY:

      To compare the uptake of azithromycin in white cells relative to plasma concentrations in
      HIV-infected patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients are randomized to receive azithromycin orally or intravenously, with crossover to
      the alternate treatment after a 21-day wash-out period.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Antiretroviral agents, provided regimen has been stable for at least 1 month.

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV infection.

          -  CD4 count <= 200 cells/mm3.

          -  No active opportunistic infection (pending discussion with Pfizer Clinician).

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Prior antiretroviral agents.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Active intercurrent illness (pending discussion with the Pfizer Clinician).

          -  Allergies to macrolide antibiotics.

          -  Signs and symptoms of severe illness that would preclude treatment.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of clinically significant allergic, hematological, renal, endocrine,
             pulmonary, gastrointestinal, cardiovascular, hepatic, psychiatric, or neurological
             disease.

          -  Clinically important change in baseline status within 4 weeks prior to study entry.

          -  Condition affecting drug absorption (e.g., ulcers, gastrectomy, HIV-associated
             enteropathies) within 4 weeks prior to study entry.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Investigational drugs including treatment IND drugs within 4 weeks prior to study
             entry.

        Known drug or alcohol dependence.
      
