TITLE:
The Safety and Effectiveness of Clarithromycin Plus Ethambutol Used With or Without Clofazimine in the Treatment of MAC in Patients With AIDS

CONDITION:
Mycobacterium Avium-intracellular Infection

INTERVENTION:
Ethambutol hydrochloride

SUMMARY:

      PRIMARY: To assess the tolerability of the combination regimen of clarithromycin plus
      ethambutol with or without clofazimine in patients with disseminated Mycobacterium avium
      Complex (dMAC).

      SECONDARY: To determine the proportion of patients achieving a sterile blood culture along
      with the time required to achieve it. To determine the duration of bacteriological response,
      defined as length of time that blood cultures remain sterile.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  History of HIV seropositivity.

          -  Disseminated MAC.

          -  Positive blood culture for MAC within 4 weeks prior to study entry.

          -  Consent of parent or guardian if less than 18 years of age.

          -  Ability to complete the study.

        NOTE:

          -  Patients with active opportunistic infections other than dMAC are permitted if dosage
             and clinical parameters have been stable for 4 weeks prior to enrollment.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Active therapy with carbamazepine or theophylline, unless investigator agrees to
             carefully monitor blood levels.

          -  Active therapy with investigational drugs other than treatment for HIV disease,
             except with approval of the sponsor.

          -  Concomitant terfenadine (Seldane or Seldane-D) or astemizole (Hismanal).

          -  Amikacin.

          -  Azithromycin.

          -  Capreomycin.

          -  Ciprofloxacin.

          -  Cycloserine.

          -  Ethionamide.

          -  Gentamicin.

          -  Kanamycin.

          -  Levofloxacin.

          -  Lomefloxacin.

          -  Ofloxacin.

          -  Rifampin.

          -  Rifabutin.

          -  Sparfloxacin.

          -  Streptomycin.

          -  Any other aminoglycosides, quinolones, and macrolides.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

        History of allergy or hypersensitivity to macrolides, ethambutol, or clofazimine.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Other antimycobacterials, including aminoglycosides, ansamycin (rifabutin), other
             macrolides (such as clindamycin), quinolones, and rifampin, between screening and
             study entry.

          -  Clarithromycin or azithromycin as prophylaxis or treatment (for any cause) for more
             than 14 days cumulative within the past 2 months.
      
