TITLE:
Kidney-Sparing Surgery Compared With Kidney Removal in Treating Patients With Kidney Cancer

CONDITION:
Kidney Cancer

INTERVENTION:
conventional surgery

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Kidney-sparing surgery is a less invasive type of surgery for kidney cancer, and
      may have fewer side effects and improve recovery. It is unknown whether kidney-sparing
      surgery is more effective than kidney removal in treating kidney cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of surgery to completely
      remove the kidney with kidney-sparing surgery in treating patients with resectable kidney
      cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare time to recurrence and survival of patients with single, low stage,
           nonmetastatic, well localized, and well delineated renal cell cancer treated with
           partial vs radical resection.

        -  Establish the side effects of kidney-sparing tumor resection in terms of morbidity and
           mortality in these patients.

        -  Study the relationship between tumor size, histologic grade, histologic type, and the
           extent of local control following partial resection.

        -  Determine which prognostic factors are important in selecting candidates for
           conservative surgery.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study.

      Patients are randomized to undergo radical nephrectomy and limited lymphadenectomy (arm I)
      or conservative surgery (arm II).

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 2 years, every 6 months
      for 2 years, then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1300 patients will be accrued for this study over 8 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Single renal T1-2 tumor suspicious for adenocarcinoma that meets the following
             requirements:

               -  Solitary tumor on CT scan

               -  Maximum diameter 5 cm

               -  Located such that negative resection margins are assured

               -  N0, M0, i.e., no nodal involvement or distant metastases

                    -  No invasion of renal pelvis, calices, or perirenal fat as determined by CT
                       scan or intravenous urography

               -  Normal contralateral kidney present

          -  No von Hippel-Lindau disease

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  Any age

        Performance status:

          -  WHO 0-2

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No second malignancy except adequately treated nonmelanomatous skin cancer

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Surgery

          -  Not specified
      
