TITLE:
Immunotherapy for Lymphoproliferative Diseases Associated With Epstein-Barr Virus in Patients Who Have Undergone Organ Transplants

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
allogeneic Epstein-Barr virus-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Donor lymphocytes that have been exposed to Epstein-Barr virus may be able to
      help the body kill cancers associated with this virus.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of Epstein-Barr virus-specific T cells
      derived from matched donors in organ transplant patients with lymphoproliferative diseases
      associated with Epstein-Barr virus.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Examine the toxic effects of allogeneic Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) specific
      cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) for the treatment of EBV lymphoproliferative diseases (LPD) in
      organ transplant recipients. II. Determine the level of in vivo expansion of allogeneic CTL
      and the period of time during which these CTL's can be detected in the blood of recipients
      of the T cell infusions.

      OUTLINE: Donors undergo leukapheresis, and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) specific cytoxic T
      lymphocytes are cultivated in vitro. Patients receive infusions of EBV specific cytotoxic T
      lymphocytes over 5 to 10 minutes on weeks 0, 2, and 4. Patients with stable disease and
      those achieving partial remission are followed weekly for signs of disease progression.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 10 patients will be accrued in this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion criteria:

          -  Radiographic evidence of lymphadenopathy or lymphomatous lesions combined with
             clinical signs of Epstein-Barr virus lymphoproliferative disease (EBV LPD), such as
             fevers and lymphadenopathy

          -  following an organ transplant Persistent, progressive, or unresponsive disease
             despite decreased immunosuppression, chemotherapy, or radiation therapy EBV LPD must
             be of host origin

          -  At least 4 weeks

          -  Patients serologically hepatitis B and C positive may receive cytotoxic

          -  T- lymphocytes (CTL) from donors who are serologically positive for the same virus

          -  Must have an HLA identical or HLA haploidentical donor

        Exclusion

          -  hepatic dysfunction SGOT/SGPT less than 2.5 times upper limit of normal (unless liver
             metastases present)

          -  Bilirubin less than 2.0 mg/dL

          -  renal dysfunction

          -  Creatinine clearance at greater than 50 mL/min

          -  cardiac dysfunction

          -  neurologic dysfunction

          -  pulmonary dysfunction

          -  patients developing EBV LPD who have a donor origin lymphoma

          -  HIV-1 positive

          -  Not capable of undergoing leukapheresis
      
