TITLE:
A Study of Azithromycin in the Prevention of Mycobacterium Avium Complex Disease (MAC) in HIV-Infected Patients

CONDITION:
Mycobacterium Avium-Intracellulare Infection

INTERVENTION:
Azithromycin

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the efficacy and safety of azithromycin administered once a week in the
      prevention of disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) in severely immunocompromised
      HIV-infected patients with a CD4 count < 100 cells/mm3.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Required:

          -  Anti-pneumocystis prophylactic therapy (dihydropteroate synthetase inhibitors with or
             without dihydrofolate reductase inhibitors, pentamidine).

        Allowed:

          -  Concomitant anti-HIV therapy (AZT, ddI, ddC) or antifungal therapy (including
             azoles).

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV infection.

          -  CD4 count < 100 cells/mm3.

          -  No MAC positive blood cultures within 1 month prior to study entry.

          -  No symptoms suggestive of disseminated MAC infection (including unexplained diarrhea,
             fever, and night sweats) within 1 month of study entry.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Positive PPD within 3 months prior to study entry (negative PPD defined as < 5 mm
             induration).

          -  Chest x-ray suggestive of any active disease, in particular tuberculosis.

          -  Known hypersensitivity to macrolide antibiotics.

          -  Any other acute clinical condition likely to interfere with completion of the
             protocol.

          -  Inability to care for self without considerable assistance and medical care.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Other investigational new drugs (except for foscarnet or ddC) unless prior agreement
             has been reached between the investigator and the Pfizer project physician.

          -  Concomitant putative immunostimulants.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

        History of MAC or Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTb) infection.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within the past 4 weeks:

          -  Any putative anti-MAC therapies including rifampin, rifabutin, clofazimine,
             ethambutol, cycloserine, ethionamide, amikacin, and ciprofloxacin or other quinolones
             thought to be active against MAC.
      
