TITLE:
An Open Study of Foscarnet Treatment First Episode CMV-Retinitis in AIDS Patients

CONDITION:
Cytomegalovirus Retinitis

INTERVENTION:
Foscarnet sodium

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the safety and efficacy of foscarnet induction therapy for treatment of AIDS
      patients experiencing their first episode of cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis. To evaluate
      the safety and efficacy of three different foscarnet maintenance therapy regimens. To
      determine the pharmacokinetics of intermittent administration of foscarnet with or without
      concomitant administration of zidovudine (AZT).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Any clinically significant pulmonary or neurologic impairment (e.g., patients who are
             intubated or comatose).

          -  Corneal, lens, or vitreous opacification which precludes examination of the fundi, or
             evidence of tuberculotic, diabetic and/or hypertensive retinopathy.

          -  Known allergy to foscarnet.

          -  Recurrent episode of cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Nephrotoxic drugs.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Recurrent episode of cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis.

          -  Any clinically significant pulmonary or neurologic impairment (e.g., patients who are
             intubated or comatose).

          -  Corneal, lens, or vitreous opacification which precludes examination of the fundi, or
             evidence of tuberculotic, diabetic, and/or hypertensive retinopathy.

          -  Known allergy to foscarnet.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Ganciclovir for cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis.

          -  Foscarnet for CMV retinitis.

        Patients with AIDS as defined by the CDC with manifest first episode cytomegalovirus (CMV)
        retinitis, as identified by its characteristic ophthalmoscopic appearance and verified by
        fundus photography.

          -  Patients must be able to give informed consent.
      
