TITLE:
A Study on the Safety and Anti-HIV Activity of HE2000 in HIV-Infected Patients on Salvage Therapy

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
HE2000

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to see if it is safe and effective to give HE2000, an
      experimental anti-HIV drug, to HIV-infected patients on salvage therapy (emergency treatment
      used when a patient has not responded to standard therapy).

      HE2000 is a hormone that is suspected to make it more difficult for HIV to live in cells.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      HE2000 is a synthetic steroid hormone that, when tested in the laboratory, had anti-viral
      activity against wild-type and drug-resistant variants of HIV. HE2000 works through a
      natural biochemical mechanism in cells to make them less able to support viral infection.

      There are 4 treatment groups of increasing doses of HE2000; each group consists of 2 parts
      (Part A and B). Part A is a single administration of HE2000 injected intramuscularly, and
      Part B is 5 consecutive daily intramuscular injections of HE2000. Patients receive the same
      dosage throughout Parts A and B of the study. Patients are asked to return to the clinic
      periodically for blood sample collection. Patients may remain at the hospital overnight for
      pharmacokinetic evaluation. Drug safety, tolerance, efficacy, and pharmacokinetics are
      measured. Samples from treatment Group 4 are analyzed for specific cell function.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients may be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are at least 18 years old.

          -  Are HIV-positive.

          -  Have been on their current anti-HIV drug combination for at least 30 days prior to
             the screening visit.

          -  Are currently failing at least their second anti-HIV drug treatment.

          -  Are not responding to their current anti-HIV treatment, have failed at least 1
             anti-HIV combination, and do not have many options for treatment (Groups 3 and 4
             only).

          -  Are willing to not make any changes in their anti-HIV treatment until at least Day 50
             during the study.

          -  Have a CD4 count of at least 100 cells/mm3 at study entry.

          -  Have a viral load (level of HIV in the body) between 5,000 and 250,000 copies/ml at
             study entry.

          -  Agree to use barrier methods of birth control (e.g., condoms) during the study.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Patients will not be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Have hepatitis B or C.

          -  Have been treated for cancer within 4 weeks prior to study entry, or will need to be
             treated during the study. (Patients with Kaposi's sarcoma are eligible but must not
             have received any treatment within 4 weeks before study entry or require treatment
             during the study.)

          -  Have received certain medications including those affecting the immune system.

          -  Are pregnant or breast-feeding.

          -  Have an active, serious infection, including opportunistic (AIDS-defining) infection
             that requires treatment during the study or during the 2 weeks prior to study entry.

          -  Have a condition or are receiving therapy that would prevent them from completing the
             study.
      
