TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy Plus Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation in Treating Patients With Relapsed Germ Cell Cancer

CONDITION:
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining chemotherapy with peripheral stem cell
      transplantation may allow the doctor to give higher doses of chemotherapy drugs and kill
      more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving combination chemotherapy together
      with bone marrow transplantation or peripheral stem cell transplantation works in treating
      patients with relapsed germ cell cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Estimate the antitumor activity of 2 courses of paclitaxel and carboplatin regimens
           with autologous stem cell rescue in patients with relapsed germ cell cancer.

        -  Evaluate the toxic effects of paclitaxel, carboplatin and etoposide (VP-16) with stem
           cell support followed by paclitaxel, carboplatin and ifosfamide with stem cell support
           in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) SC or IV 4 days prior to peripheral blood stem
      cells (PBSC) apheresis. Autologous bone marrow harvest is performed when adequate stem cells
      cannot be collected.

      Patients then receive course 1 of high-dose chemotherapy beginning on day -7 with paclitaxel
      IV over 24 hours. On days -6 to -4, patients receive etoposide IV over 2 hours and
      carboplatin (CBDCA) IV over 30 minutes 3 times daily. Following a 2 or 3 week recovery, a
      second course of chemotherapy begins on day -7, consisting of paclitaxel IV over 24 hours,
      then CBDCA and ifosfamide on days -6 to -4.

      Reinfusion of PBSC and marrow begins on day -2 in both course 1 and 2. In addition, G-CSF IV
      is given twice a day until 3 consecutive postnadir days of granulocytes of at least
      1000/mm^3 are maintained. On day 0, stem cells with or without bone marrow product are again
      administered.

      Surgery may be performed after course 2 if indicated.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: The expected accrual rate is 12 patients per year over 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to 120 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Evaluable germ cell cancer (measurable by radiographic study and/or serum tumor
             marker elevation) and not curable by standard salvage therapy OR viable cancer on
             resection of post-chemotherapy residual masses in either intermediate or high risk
             category

          -  Bidimensionally measurable disease with measurements performed within 21 days of
             study entry

          -  Tumor marker (alpha-fetoprotein, lactate dehydrogenase, beta-human chorionic
             gonadotropin) studies performed within 7 days prior to study entry

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  16 and over

        Performance status:

          -  Karnofsky 70-100%

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 120,000/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin at least 10 g/dL

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.6 mg/dL

          -  SGOT and SGPT no greater than 2 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  No active hepatitis or cirrhosis

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine clearance at least 70 mL/min

        Cardiovascular:

          -  Ejection fraction (MUGA or echocardiogram) normal

          -  No EKG evidence of active cardiac disease (arrhythmias, ischemia) which would
             contraindicate etoposide and paclitaxel study treatment

        Pulmonary:

          -  PaO_2 at least 70 mm Hg

          -  FEV_1 at least 2 L or 75%

          -  No history of bleomycin associated or serious lung disease

        Neurologic:

          -  No steroid or glucocorticoid treatment for patients with CNS metastatic disease; at
             least 1 month with stable post-radiotherapy neurological status and seizure free; if
             prior seizures, at least 1 month with therapeutic anticonvulsant levels prior to
             study

          -  Prior peripheral neuropathy requires consultation with principal investigator

        Other:

          -  No significant active medical illness precluding study or survival

          -  Not HIV positive

          -  No prior malignancy within past 5 years except for adequately treated basal cell or
             squamous cell skin cancer

          -  No prior hematologic malignancies

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  No prior bone marrow or stem cell rescue with high-dose chemotherapy

        Chemotherapy:

          -  Prior chemotherapy allowed, excluding high-dose therapy with bone marrow or stem cell
             rescue

          -  No prior paclitaxel

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No concurrent radiotherapy during study

        Surgery:

          -  Recovered from prior surgery
      
