TITLE:
A Randomized Study of Daily and Intermittent Prophylactic Regimens for the Prevention of Disseminated Mycobacterium Avium Complex (MAC) and Fungal Infections in HIV-Infected Patients

CONDITION:
Mycoses

INTERVENTION:
Azithromycin

SUMMARY:

      PRIMARY: To determine the efficacy of azithromycin and rifabutin alone and in combination
      for the prevention of disseminated Mycobacterium avium Complex (MAC) infection in
      HIV-infected patients. To determine the efficacy of daily versus weekly fluconazole for the
      prevention of deep fungal infections in this patient population.

      SECONDARY: To determine the incidence of bacterial (including mycobacterial) infections,
      cryptosporidiosis, and toxoplasmosis in azithromycin versus non-azithromycin containing
      regimens. To determine the incidence of oropharyngeal and vaginal candidiasis in patients
      treated with daily versus weekly fluconazole. To compare survival and outcomes of primary
      endpoints in the treatment arms.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients are randomized to receive azithromycin alone, rifabutin alone, or the two drugs in
      combination for MAC prophylaxis. Patients in each treatment group further receive one of two
      doses of concomitant fluconazole for deep fungal prophylaxis, unless specifically excluded
      for fluconazole randomization. Patients are followed for 1 to 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 12 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Preventive therapy with isoniazid for M. tuberculosis.

          -  Maintenance therapy for CMV retinitis.

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV infection or history of an AIDS-defining condition by CDC criteria.

          -  One documented CD4 count < 100 cells/mm3 within 12 months prior to study entry.

          -  NO active MAC disease, MAC bacteremia, or active mycobacterial infection (tuberculous
             or nontuberculous).

          -  NO acute opportunistic infection.

          -  Life expectancy of more than 6 months.

          -  Consent of parent or guardian if less than legal age of consent.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

        ALL PATIENTS -

          -  Unexplained fevers, elevation in alkaline phosphatase, pancytopenia, abnormal liver
             function tests, or odynophagia for which the diagnoses of MAC and fungal infections
             have not been excluded.

          -  Serious hypersensitivity reactions to macrolides or rifampin.

          -  Unable to tolerate oral medications. FOR FLUCONAZOLE RANDOMIZATION -

          -  Serious hypersensitivity reaction to fluconazole.

          -  Active fungal infection (cryptococcosis, histoplasmosis, blastomycosis,
             aspergillosis, Candida esophagitis, thrush, vaginal candidiasis).

          -  Positive baseline urine cryptococcal culture.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded for fluconazole randomization:

          -  Maintenance therapy for deep fungal infections.

          -  Chronic therapy with ketoconazole or fluconazole.
      
