TITLE:
High-Dose Megestrol in Treating Patients With Metastatic Breast Cancer, Endometrial Cancer, or Mesothelioma

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
megestrol acetate

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Some hormones can stimulate the growth of some types of cancer cells. Hormone
      therapy using megestrol may fight cancer by reducing the production of these hormones.

      PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of high-dose megestrol in treating
      patients with metastatic breast cancer, endometrial cancer, or mesothelioma which cannot be
      treated with surgery or radiation therapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate the clinical effects of high-dose oral megestrol in improving
      regression rate and prolonging survival in patients with breast or endometrial carcinoma or
      mesothelioma. II. Evaluate the immune, endocrine, and clinical effects of this regimen, with
      particular attention to effects on cachexia.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified by performance status, dominant
      site of disease, and prior treatment with megestrol. Breast cancer patients are randomized
      to one of 3 doses of oral megestrol (800, 1,280, or 1,600 mg/day, divided qid). Female
      patients with other tumor types are nonrandomly assigned to receive oral megestrol at 1,600
      mg/day. Male patients are nonrandomly assigned to a dose-finding study of megestrol. The
      first patient cohort receives megestrol at 480 mg/day in 3 divided doses, with further
      escalation for subsequent cohorts as tolerated. All patients continue therapy for at least 8
      weeks, with treatment discontinued upon progression. Measurable lesions are evaluated every
      2 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 9 evaluable breast cancer patients at each dose level will be entered; 14
      patients will be required for each of the other disease categories. (As of 11/92, the study
      is temporarily closed to patients with prostate cancer.)
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically documented metastatic breast or endometrial
        carcinoma or mesothelioma not amenable to surgical and/or radiotherapeutic cure or
        long-term control Measurable soft tissue, bony, or visceral lesions required Indicator
        lesions other than blastic bony metastases and pleural effusions required for breast
        cancer Hormone receptor status (breast cancer): Estrogen-receptor-positive and/or
        progesterone-receptor-positive

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: At least 18 Sex (breast cancer): Not specified Menopausal
        status (breast cancer): Any status Performance status: Not specified Life expectancy: At
        least 3 months Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic: Not specified Renal: Not specified

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: At least 4 weeks since therapy Chemotherapy:
        At least 4 weeks since therapy Endocrine therapy: Breast cancer: At least disease
        stabilization achieved following tamoxifen or other hormonal manipulation if such
        treatment given previously At least 4 weeks since therapy Nonbreast cancer patients may be
        entered immediately after conventional doses of megestrol or other hormones Radiotherapy:
        At least 4 weeks since therapy Concomitant radiotherapy to nonindicator lesions allowed
        Surgery: At least 4 weeks since therapy
      
