TITLE:
Interleukin-2 in Treating Patients With Mycosis Fungoides

CONDITION:
Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
aldesleukin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Interleukin-2 may stimulate a person's white blood cells to kill cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of interleukin-2 in treating patients who
      have mycosis fungoides.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and toxicity of interleukin-2 in patients with
           stage IIB-IV mycosis fungoides.

        -  Determine the response rate of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the immunologic response to this regimen in peripheral blood leukocytes and
           serum of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study.

      Patients receive interleukin-2 (IL-2) subcutaneously on days 1-5 during weeks 1-3 and on
      days 1-3 and 5 during week 4. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 4 courses.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of IL-2 until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which 3 of 6 patients experience
      dose-limiting toxicity. Six additional patients receive IL-2 at 1 dose level preceding the
      MTD.

      Patients are followed at least 3 times during year 1 and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 16-30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Clinically and histologically proven diagnosis of 1 of the following:

               -  Mycosis fungoides (MF) meeting 1 of the following conditions:

                    -  Stage IIB disease that has failed psoralen ultraviolet A (PUVA) light
                       therapy and topical chemotherapy (mechlorethamine and/or carmustine)

                    -  Stage III disease with generalized erythroderma

                    -  Stage IV disease with biopsy proven nodal or visceral involvement

               -  Sezary syndrome

                    -  Stage III MF with a minimum of 20% Sezary cells (based on total WBC)

          -  No clinically significant ascites or pleural effusion

               -  Clinically significant pleural effusion defined as shortness of breath with
                  oxygen saturation less than 90%

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 to 80

        Performance status:

          -  Karnofsky 70-100%

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 16 weeks

        Hematopoietic:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  WBC at least 3,500/mm^3

          -  Granulocyte count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin at least 11.5 g/dL

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin less than 2.5 times normal

          -  SGOT less than 2.5 times normal

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2.0 mg/dL

          -  No nephrotic syndrome

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No history of myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure

          -  No symptomatic coronary artery disease

          -  No clinically manifest hypotension

          -  No severe hypertension

          -  No arrhythmia on electrocardiogram

          -  No edema

          -  No contraindication to pressor agents

        Pulmonary:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No dyspnea at rest or severe exertional dyspnea

        Neurologic:

          -  No significant CNS dysfunction, including any of the following:

               -  Seizure disorder

               -  Active cerebrovascular disease

               -  Dementia or delirium

        Other:

          -  No autoimmune disease, including psoriasis

          -  No uncontrolled peptic ulcer disease

          -  No uncontrolled infection

          -  No history of adverse reaction to interleukin-2

          -  HIV and HTLV-I negative

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior systemic or topical chemotherapy (6 weeks since prior
             mitomycin or nitrosoureas)

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  At least 1 week since prior corticosteroids

          -  No concurrent corticosteroids

        Radiotherapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  No prior organ allograft

          -  At least 3 weeks since other prior major surgery

        Other:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior immunosuppressive therapy

          -  At least 2 weeks since prior phototherapy (ultraviolet B [UVB] or PUVA light therapy)

          -  No concurrent phototherapy (UVB or PUVA light therapy)
      
