TITLE:
Cytotoxic T Cells and Interleukin-2 in Treating Adult Patients With Recurrent Brain Tumors

CONDITION:
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors

INTERVENTION:
aldesleukin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Biological therapy uses different ways to stimulate the immune system and stop
      cancer cells from growing. Cytotoxic T cells combined with interleukin-2 may be an effective
      treatment for recurrent brain tumors.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of cytotoxic T cells and interleukin-2 in
      treating adults with recurrent brain tumors.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate the toxicity of allogeneic cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) when
      repeatedly instilled directly into the brain to treat recurrent primary brain tumors. II.
      Evaluate the response produced by allogeneic CTL and interleukin-2. III. Correlate CTL
      surface phenotype and degree of patient/donor HLA mismatch to response and toxicity.

      OUTLINE: Surgery plus Biological Response Modifier Therapy. Tumor resection; plus
      intracavitary cytotoxic T lymphocytes, CTL; intracavitary Interleukin-2 (Chiron), IL-2,
      NSC-373364. CTL are generated in vitro by mixing irradiated patient lymphocytes (cultured
      with IL-2 and Monoclonal Antibody OKT 3, MOAB OKT 3, NSC-618843) with allogeneic lymphocytes
      and culturing the mixture with IL-2.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 10 patients will be treated. If severe toxicity occurs in the first 5
      patients, the study will close.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Kernohan Grade III/IV primary malignant brain tumor that has
        failed conventional surgical resection and radiotherapy Evidence of recurrent tumor on
        gadolinium-enhanced MRI following completion of radiotherapy (minimum 5,000 cGy for
        adults) required The following histologies are eligible: Anaplastic astrocytoma Anaplastic
        oligodendroglioma Glioblastoma multiforme Mixed anaplastic glioma Surgical resection of
        progressing brain tumor feasible No evidence of tumor extending across the midline from
        one hemisphere to the other No multifocal tumor or leptomeningeal spread

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: Over 18 Performance status: Karnofsky 60-100% Life
        expectancy: At least 2 months Hematopoietic: WBC greater than 2,000 Platelets greater than
        100,000 Hct at least 28% Hepatic: Bilirubin less than 1.5 mg/dl Renal: Creatinine less
        than 1.5 mg/dl Cardiovascular: No major cardiovascular problems Pulmonary: No major
        pulmonary problems Other: Seronegative for HTLV/HIV, syphilis, and hepatitis B and C No
        concurrent systemic infection Ability to maintain proper nutrition (orally or
        intravenously) during the study period required No pregnant women

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: More than 4 weeks
        since systemic chemotherapy (6 weeks since carmustine), with the WBC increasing on 2
        consecutive determinations at least 3 days apart Endocrine therapy: Not specified
        Radiotherapy: At least 8 weeks since radiotherapy Surgery: See Disease Characteristics
      
