TITLE:
A Comparison of Two Triple-Drug Combinations in Patients Who Have Never Been Treated With Anti-HIV Drugs

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Nelfinavir mesylate

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to compare the safety of didanosine plus stavudine plus
      nelfinavir (NLF) with that of zidovudine plus lamivudine plus NLF. This study also examines
      how long these drug combinations are effective in lowering viral load (level of HIV in the
      blood).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 12 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

        Within 15 business days prior to randomization:

          -  CD4 cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm3.

          -  HIV RNA greater than or equal to 2,000 copies/ml by Roche Amplicor Assay.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with any of the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Bilateral peripheral neuropathy.

          -  Intractable diarrhea.

          -  Proven or suspected acute hepatitis within 30 days prior to study entry.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

        - Therapy for any co-existing disease that may interfere with patient ability to
        participate in this study.

        Concurrent Treatment:

        Excluded:

        Therapy for any co-existing disease that may interfere with patient ability to participate
        in this study.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

        History of acute or chronic pancreatitis.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Therapy for any previous disease that may interfere with patient ability to
             participate in this study.

          -  Excluded within 14 days prior to randomization:

        Greater than 4 weeks of nucleoside therapy or greater than 1 week of protease inhibitor
        therapy.

          -  Excluded within 3 months of the start of this study or expected need at time of
             enrollment:

          -  Agents with significant systemic myelosuppressive, neurotoxic, pancreatoxic,
             hepatotoxic, or cytotoxic potential.

          -  Inability to tolerate oral medication.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded:

        Therapy for any previous disease that may interfere with patient ability to participate in
        this study.

        Risk Behavior:

        Excluded:

        Active alcohol or substance abuse that, in the opinion of the investigator, is sufficient
        to prevent adequate compliance with study therapy or to increase the risk of developing
        pancreatitis.
      
