TITLE:
A Study of MKC-442 in Combination With Other Anti-HIV Drugs

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Emivirine

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to see if it is safe and effective to give MKC-442 plus
      stavudine (d4T) plus didanosine (ddI) plus hydroxyurea.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients are randomized to receive either MKC-442 or placebo, along with stavudine(d4T),
      didanosine(ddI), and hydroxyurea. Patients will be treated and followed for 48 weeks.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

        - Based on medical history, medical condition, prior use of antiretroviral drugs, and
        genotypic analysis of the predominant strain of HIV-1 isolated from the plasma,
        administration of a combination of two or more available antiretroviral agents by
        prescription may be given with MKC-442.

        Patient must have:

          -  HIV infection with HIV-1 RNA greater than or equal to 5,000 by Roche Amplicor method
             within 30 days of entry.

          -  A failed protease inhibitor-containing regimen.

          -  Negative serum beta human chorionic gonadotropin test within 30 days of entry.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Prior nucleoside reverse transcriptase and protease inhibitors.

          -  Cytotoxic chemotherapy more than 30 days prior to entry.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Malabsorption or severe chronic diarrhea within 30 days prior to entry, or inability
             to consume adequate oral intake because of chronic nausea, emesis, or abdominal or
             esophageal discomfort.

          -  Inadequately controlled seizure disorder.

          -  Known intolerance to stavudine, didanosine, and/or hydroxyurea.

          -  Acute and clinically significant medical event within 30 days of screening.

          -  Any clinical or laboratory abnormality greater than Grade 3 toxicity, with the
             exception of laboratory values given.

        Concurrent Treatment:

        Excluded:

        - Any experimental antiretroviral therapy or immunomodulators directed against HIV-1,
        e.g., IL-4, cyclosporine steroids at doses greater than 40 mg/day.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

        - Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor therapy.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Radiation therapy within 30 days of entry except to a local lesion.

          -  Transfusion of blood or blood products within 21 days of screening.

          -  Cytotoxic therapy within 3 months of study entry.

        Risk Behavior:

        Excluded:

        Active substance abuse that may interfere with compliance or protocol evaluations.
      
