TITLE:
A Study of WF 10 IV Solution in Patients With Advanced HIV Disease

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
WF10

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to see if it is safe and effective to give WF 10 (TCDO) to
      patients with advanced HIV disease who cannot or will not take zidovudine, didanosine,
      zalcitabine, or stavudine. This study also examines how TCDO affects the levels of HIV in
      the body. TCDO is a solution delivered through a vein.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Approved drugs at a stabilized dose except those specifically excluded.

          -  Aerosolized pentamidine (300 mg) once a month for PCP prophylaxis.

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV positivity.

          -  Absolute CD4 count < 200 cells/mm3.

          -  Intolerance to or refusal to take AZT, ddI, ddC, or d4T.

          -  No active opportunistic infection requiring ongoing therapy.

          -  Life expectancy at least 3 months.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Neoplasm other than basal cell carcinoma of the skin.

          -  Clinically significant cardiac disease.

          -  Anemia.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Cytotoxic chemotherapy.

          -  Corticosteroids.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

        History of myocardial infarction or arrhythmias.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 2 weeks prior to study entry:

          -  Any antiretroviral agent.

          -  Interferon.

          -  Systemic therapy with biologic response modifiers, corticosteroids, cytotoxic
             chemotherapy, or neutropenic or nephrotoxic drugs.

        Excluded within 30 days prior to study entry:

          -  Investigational drugs.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded within 2 weeks prior to study entry:

          -  Radiation therapy. Active drug or alcohol abuse.
      
