TITLE:
SWOG-9342 Chemotherapy in Treating Women Enrolled in the SWOG-8897 Clinical Trial

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
management of therapy complications

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die.

      PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying the effect of chemotherapy on heart function in
      treating women who have breast cancer with negative axillary lymph nodes and who are
      undergoing treatment on the SWOG-8897 clinical trial.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the frequency of subclinical congestive heart failure by measuring resting MUGA
           at 5-8 and 10-11 years after randomization in women receiving adjuvant chemotherapy
           with cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil or cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin,
           and fluorouracil on protocol SWOG-8897.

        -  Estimate the frequency of late cardiac effects (congestive heart failure, cardiac
           ischemic events, and clinical symptoms) in these patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Monitor prospectively the incidence of annual cardiac events between the fifth and
           tenth year after randomization of these patients to these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      The treating physician completes patient cardiovascular and routine history and physical
      examination questionnaires at baseline and yearly. Patients undergo resting MUGA scans at
      5-8 and 10-11 years after registration on protocol SWOG-8897. The first scan must be
      performed within 3 months prior to enrollment or within 1 month after registration on the
      current study, and the second scan must be done in the tenth year of follow-up and within 3
      months prior to enrollment or 1 month from the anniversary of registration on the current
      study.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 420 patients will be accrued for this study. After initial
      accrual is completed, approximately 50 additional patients will be accrued at 10 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to 120 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Women registered on Arm I, II, III, or IV of protocol SWOG-8897 who have completed at
             least 1 course of assigned chemotherapy

               -  Completion of tamoxifen therapy not required

               -  Registration to current study required between 5.25-8 years or 10-11 years after
                  randomization to protocol SWOG-8897

          -  Patients must be diagnosed disease-free with no prior recurrence after registration
             on protocol SWOG-8897

          -  Hormone receptor status:

               -  Not specified

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Sex:

          -  Female

        Menopausal status:

          -  Pre- and postmenopausal

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life Expectancy:

          -  At least 5 years

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  Pregnant or nursing women not eligible for nuclear medicine (MUGA) portion of study

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception during and for 1 month after MUGA

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No prior chemotherapy for second primary malignancy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No prior radiotherapy for second primary malignancy

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified
      
