TITLE:
Antifungal Therapy for Fever and Neutropenia in Patients Receiving Treatment for Hematologic Cancer

CONDITION:
Chronic Myeloproliferative Disorders

INTERVENTION:
amphotericin B deoxycholate

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Antifungal therapy with liposomal nystatin may reduce fever and neutropenia in
      patients undergoing treatment for hematologic cancer. It is not yet known whether liposomal
      nystatin is more effective than standard amphotericin B in treating patients with fever and
      neutropenia who are receiving chemotherapy for hematologic cancer or bone marrow
      transplantation for leukemia.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to study the effectiveness of liposomal nystatin
      compared with standard amphotericin B to treat fever and neutropenia in patients receiving
      chemotherapy for hematologic cancer or bone marrow transplantation for leukemia.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the efficacy of liposomal nystatin vs standard amphotericin B for the
      empiric treatment of persistent febrile neutropenic patients. II. Compare the incidence of
      drug-related toxicity or impairment and infusion-related toxicity in patients treated with
      liposomal nystatin vs standard amphotericin B. III. Determine the pharmacokinetics of
      liposomal nystatin.

      OUTLINE: Randomized, double-blind study. Arm I: Antifungal Therapy. Liposomal Nystatin. Arm
      II: Antifungal Therapy. Amphotericin B, NSC-527017.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 350 evaluable patients will be studied in this multicenter trial.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 2 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Persistent febrile neutropenia associated with 1 of the following
        within 3 months prior to entry: Cytotoxic chemotherapy Bone marrow transplantation
        Neutropenia defined as either: ANC no greater than 500/mm3 ANC no greater than 1,000/mm3
        and expected to decrease to 500/mm3 or less within 2 days after entry Persistent
        continuous or spiking fever of at least 38 C No association with administration of
        pyrogenic substances No response to at least 72 hours of empiric, broad-spectrum
        antibacterial therapy No microbiologically documented source of infection At least 30 days
        since documented invasive fungal infection

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 2 and over Performance status: Not specified Life
        expectancy: At least 28 days Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic: No grade 2 or greater
        hepatic impairment Renal: No grade 2 or greater renal impairment No peritoneal dialysis or
        hemodialysis Other: No history of severe allergic reaction to polyene antifungal agent No
        pregnant or nursing women Negative pregnancy test required of fertile women Effective
        contraception required of fertile women during and for 3 months after study

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: At least 2 weeks since polyene antifungal therapy Concurrent
        oral prophylactic antifungal therapy with an azole antifungal agent (e.g., fluconazole,
        itraconazole) allowed if patient remains febrile No concurrent azole therapy At least 30
        days since other investigational drug or device except investigational formulation of
        amphotericin B
      
