TITLE:
Interferon Alfa and Interleukin-2 in Treating Patients With Metastatic Kidney Cancer

CONDITION:
Kidney Cancer

INTERVENTION:
aldesleukin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Biological therapies use different ways to stimulate the immune system to try to
      stop cancer cells from growing. Combining interferon alfa and interleukin-2 may kill more
      tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of interferon alfa and interleukin-2 in
      treating patients with metastatic kidney cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Evaluate the response and disease-free survival of patients with metastatic renal cell
           carcinoma treated with subcutaneous interleukin-2 and interferon alfa.

        -  Assess the toxicity of this regimen.

      OUTLINE: Patients undergo nephrectomy if the diseased kidney makes up the bulk of the tumor
      burden.

      All patients receive subcutaneous interferon alfa on day 1 and interleukin-2 on days 3-5 of
      week 1, followed by reduced doses of interferon alfa and interleukin-2 on days 1, 3, and 5
      of weeks 2-6. Patients are assessed for response approximately 2 months after initiating
      therapy. Patients with stable or responding disease undergo a second course; those who
      continue to respond may receive additional therapy provided toxicity is limited.

      Patients are followed for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 14 patients will be entered.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically proven renal cell cancer that is metastatic

               -  No greater than 50% estimated hepatic replacement by tumor on CT or MRI

               -  No symptomatic involvement of the CNS or a major nerve

          -  Measurable disease required

          -  Ineligible for treatment with low-dose interleukin-2 on another CMC protocol

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  Karnofsky 50%-100%

        Life expectancy:

          -  More than 3 months

        Hematopoietic:

          -  No coagulopathy (i.e., platelet count less than 80,000/mm3)

        Hepatic:

          -  AST and ALT no greater than 5 times normal

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine less than 4.0 mg/dL

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No symptomatic angina

          -  No untreated coronary artery disease

          -  No refractory arrhythmia

          -  No abnormal left ventricular function

        Pulmonary:

          -  No dyspnea on minimal exertion

        Other:

          -  No site of ongoing bleeding

          -  No systemic infection

          -  No HIV antibody

          -  No HBsAg

          -  No requirement for steroids

          -  No psychiatric disease that precludes informed consent or protocol treatment

          -  No second malignancy except:

               -  Basal cell skin carcinoma

               -  Carcinoma in situ of the cervix

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Effective contraception required of fertile women

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  No prior interleukin-2

        Chemotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Surgery

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  At least 28 days since prior treatment for renal cell cancer
      
