TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy, Interferon Alfa, and Interleukin-2 in Treating Patients With Metastatic Melanoma

CONDITION:
Melanoma (Skin)

INTERVENTION:
aldesleukin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Interferon alfa may interfere with the growth of the cancer
      cells. Interleukin-2 may stimulate a person's white blood cells to kill melanoma cells. It
      is not yet known which treatment regimen is more effective in treating melanoma.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase II trial to compare the effectiveness of two regimens of
      combination chemotherapy plus interferon alfa and interleukin-2 in treating patients who
      have metastatic melanoma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Assess the rate of disease stabilization in patients with metastatic melanoma when
           treated with interferon alfa, dacarbazine, cisplatin, and interleukin-2.

        -  Assess toxicity, overall response rate, and response duration in these patients when
           treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      center. Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive dacarbazine IV over 1 hour and cisplatin IV over 3 hours on
           days 1-3. Patients also receive interferon alfa subcutaneously (SQ) on days 1-5 and
           interleukin-2 by continuous IV infusion on days 4-9. Treatment continues every 28 days
           for a maximum of 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive dacarbazine IV on day 1 and 22 every 28 days for 2 courses.
           Patients then receive treatment as in arm I for a maximum of 4 courses.

      Patients are followed every 2 months for 6 months, then every 3 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 42-90 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed melanoma that is metastatic and unresectable

          -  Measurable, progressive disease (by physical exam and/or noninvasive imaging)

               -  No prior irradiation of indicator lesions

          -  No CNS metastases (confirmed by CT or MRI)

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 to 70

        Performance status:

          -  Karnofsky 60-100%

        Life expectancy:

          -  Greater than 3 months

        Hematopoietic:

          -  WBC at least 2,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  No serious hepatic disease

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.65 mg/dL

          -  No serious renal disease

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No serious cardiac disease

        Pulmonary:

          -  No serious pulmonary disease

        Other:

          -  No organ allograft

          -  No autoimmune disease

          -  No uncontrolled infection

          -  No active peptic ulcer

          -  No hyper or hypothyroidism

          -  No requirement for corticosteroids

          -  No second malignancy except basal cell skin carcinoma or carcinoma in situ of the
             cervix

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  No prior immunotherapy with interleukin-2

          -  No prior interferon alfa in combination with cisplatin or dacarbazine

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior chemotherapy with cisplatin in combination with dacarbazine

          -  More than 3 months since prior chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Prior radiotherapy allowed

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified
      
