TITLE:
A Multicenter, Double-Blind, Phase III, Adjuvant-Controlled Study of the Effect of 10 Units of HIV-1 Immunogen (Remune) Compared to Incomplete Freund's Adjuvant (IFA) Alone Every 12 Weeks on AIDS-Free Survival in Subjects With HIV Infection and CD4 T-Lymphocytes Between 300 and 549 Cells/microL Rega

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
HIV-1 Immunogen

SUMMARY:

      To determine the effect of HIV-1 immunogen (Remune) on AIDS-free survival, defined as the
      time prior to development of an AIDS-defining condition or death.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients receive 10 units of HIV-1 immunogen in IFA or IFA alone every 12 weeks, then are
      followed for 104-148 weeks.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Antiretrovirals if on a stable dose for at least the past 3 months.

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV-1 infection with CD4 count 300-549 cells/mm3.

          -  No AIDS-defining condition.

          -  Been on a stable dose of antiretroviral for the past 3 months, if taking
             antiretrovirals.

        NOTE:

          -  KS is permitted if not requiring systemic therapy.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Prior antiretrovirals.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Systemic chemotherapy for KS.

          -  Treatment for malignancy other than basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma of the skin
             or carcinoma in situ of the cervix.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of any illness that would interfere with study.

          -  Acute infection requiring prescription therapy within the past month, other than
             genital herpes and oral or vaginal candidiasis.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Prior HIV-1 Immunogen. Unwilling to use effective safe sex practices. Active
             substance abuse.
      
