TITLE:
Melphalan and Thiotepa Followed by Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation in Treating Patients With Epithelial Ovarian Cancer in Complete Remission

CONDITION:
Ovarian Cancer

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining chemotherapy with peripheral stem cell
      transplantation may allow the doctor to give higher doses of chemotherapy drugs and kill
      more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of melphalan and thiotepa followed by
      peripheral stem cell transplantation in treating patients with stage III or stage IV
      epithelial ovarian cancer in complete remission.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Assess the toxic effects of combined high dose melphalan and thiotepa
      chemotherapy followed by stem cell rescue in patients with stage III or IV ovarian
      epithelial cancer in complete remission. II. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of
      thiotepa that can be given with melphalan in these patients. III. Evaluate the interpatient
      blood level variability and pharmacokinetics of melphalan given intravenously.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of thiotepa. Patients receive cytoreduction and
      mobilization of peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) with filgrastim (G-CSF) and
      cyclophosphamide/paclitaxel, cyclophosphamide/etoposide or
      cyclophosphamide/etoposide/cisplatin within 30-90 days of last dose of standard therapy.
      PBSC are then collected. Patients then receive melphalan IV over 30 minutes on days -6 and
      -5 and thiotepa IV over 2 hours on days -4 and -3. PBSC are reinfused on day 0. G-CSF is
      administered on days 0-21. Cohorts of 5-15 patients each receive escalating doses of
      thiotepa until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is reached. The MTD is determined as the
      dose at which 2-5 of 4-15 patients experience dose limiting toxicity. Patients are followed
      at 100 days, then at 6, 12, and 24 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30-45 patients will be accrued for this study over 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed stage III/IV ovarian epithelial cancer
        in first or second clinical complete remission after receiving a minimum of 4-10 courses
        of chemotherapy consisting of paclitaxel and either cisplatin or carboplatin Ovarian
        epithelial cancer of following histologic types: Serous adenocarcinoma Mucinous
        adenocarcinoma Clear cell adenocarcinoma Transitional cell Adenocarcinoma N.O.S.
        Endometrioid adenocarcinoma Undifferentiated carcinoma Mixed epithelial carcinoma
        Malignant Brenner's Tumor Remission stability maintained for at least 4 weeks Protocol
        therapy must begin 30-90 days after last dose of standard therapy No active pleural or
        pericardial effusion No prior/concurrent brain metastasis or carcinoid meningitis

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 to 60 Performance status: Karnofsky 70-100% Life
        expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic: Bilirubin less than 1.5
        times the upper limit of normal (ULN) SGOT or SGPT less than 2.0 times ULN Albumin greater
        than 2.0 g/dL Renal: Creatinine clearance greater than 60 mL/min Cardiovascular: Ejection
        fraction greater than 45% by MUGA Pulmonary: If history of smoking or abnormal lung
        function, Diffusion capacity greater than 50% (corrected) A-a gradient less than 20 Other:
        No history of hemorrhagic cystitis No second malignancy within the last 5 years except
        basal cell skin cancer HIV negative No chronic active hepatitis B No hepatitis C No
        history of Aspergillus infection

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: No prior stem cell transplant Chemotherapy:
        Prior chemotherapy consisting of paclitaxel and either cisplatin or carboplatin Endocrine
        therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: No prior radiation therapy for malignancy (excluding
        chest wall radiation therapy for breast cancer) Surgery: Not specified
      
