TITLE:
Photodynamic Therapy in Treating Patients With Skin Cancer

CONDITION:
Non-melanomatous Skin Cancer

INTERVENTION:
aminolevulinic acid

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Photodynamic therapy uses light and drugs that make cancer cells more sensitive
      to light to kill tumor cells. Photodynamic therapy using aminolevulinic acid may be
      effective in treating patients with skin cancer.

      PURPOSE: This randomized phase II trial is studying how well photodynamic therapy that
      includes aminolevulinic acid works in treating patients with skin cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the efficacy of aminolevulinic acid and laser irradiation in patients with
           superficial and nodular epidermally derived lesions.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to lesion type
      (superficial basal cell carcinoma [BCC] vs nodular BCC vs superficial squamous cell
      carcinoma vs actinic keratoses). Individual lesions on patients within each stratum are
      randomized to receive either a 4-5 or 18-24 hour application of aminolevulinic acid (ALA).

      ALA is topically applied in a cream mixture and an occlusive dressing is placed over the
      lesion. After the randomized duration of ALA application has expired, the dressing is
      removed and a dye laser is used to treat the lesion.

      Patients are followed for 2-5 years after treatment.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Up to 200 patients could be accrued, assuming 1 lesion per patient. 50
      lesions are required for each stratified group.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of 1 of the following:

               -  Actinic keratoses

               -  Histologically proven superficial or nodular basal cell carcinoma (BCC),
                  squamous cell carcinoma in situ (Bowen's disease), or microinvasive squamous
                  cell carcinoma

          -  No nodular BCC greater than 4 mm thick that will not be surgically removed

          -  No carcinoma with uncertain margins requiring Moh's surgery

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  Not specified

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No known photosensitivity disease

          -  No porphyria or hypersensitivity to porphyrins

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No prior treatment with systemic photosensitizer that would cause residual cutaneous
             photosensitivity during study participation
      
