TITLE:
Paclitaxel in Advanced Refractory Kaposi's Sarcoma (AIDS-KS): A Phase II Trial of Paclitaxel From Baker Norton Pharmaceuticals

CONDITION:
Sarcoma, Kaposi

INTERVENTION:
Paclitaxel

SUMMARY:

      To determine response rate, median time to tumor progression, qualitative and quantitative
      toxicity and reversibility of toxicity in patients with advanced refractory AIDS-associated
      Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) administered a 3-hour infusion of paclitaxel every 14 days. To
      evaluate the clinical benefit of paclitaxel in this patient population by evaluating
      self-reported responses to the Symptom Distress Scale and by documenting and evaluating any
      changes in their lymphedema, pain and disfiguring facial lesions.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients are treated with paclitaxel intravenously every 2 weeks up to 10 courses. Patients
      who achieve a complete response receive 2 additional courses those who achieve partial
      response or stabilization, continue therapy until progression.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  Microscopically confirmed diagnosis of KS associated with HIV for which systematic
             therapy is medically indicated by the presence of at least one of the following:

        A. >= 25 mucocutaneous (mouth or skin) lesions. B. Symptomatic visceral involvement. C.
        Symptomatic lymphedema (pain).

          -  Minimum of 5 clearly measurably cutaneous lesions by physical exam or measurable
             disease by X-ray, CT or MRI.

          -  Failed at least one systemic chemotherapy regimen.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions and symptoms are excluded:

          -  Less than 2 weeks since major surgery.

          -  Serious uncontrolled infection. NOTE:

          -  Must be ruled out by thorough work-up in patients with unexplained fevers, night
             sweats, or involuntary weight loss of more than 10% normal weight.

          -  Leukopenia.

          -  Thrombocytopenia.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of angina or myocardial infarction within the past 6 months.

          -  Second degree or third degree atrioventricular block without a pacemaker.

          -  Congestive heart failure (poorly controlled).

          -  History of prior malignancy except:

        Completely excised in situ, carcinoma of the cervix or nonmelanomatous skin cancer.

        Curatively treated other malignancy with no evidence of disease for at least 5 years.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

        Prior taxane therapy.

        Required:

          -  At least one systemic chemotherapy regimen that failed to maintain significant
             benefit. NOTE:

          -  Intralesional chemotherapy regimens are not considered as prior chemotherapy.

          -  At least 2 weeks since last dose of prior systemic chemotherapy.
      
