TITLE:
A Compassionate Treatment Protocol for the Use of Trimetrexate Glucuronate With Leucovorin Protection for Patients With Pneumocystis Carinii Pneumonia.

CONDITION:
Pneumonia, Pneumocystis Carinii

INTERVENTION:
Trimetrexate glucuronate

SUMMARY:

      To provide trimetrexate glucuronate to immunosuppressed patients with Pneumocystis carinii
      pneumonia (PCP) for whom this investigational compound could provide significant medical
      benefit.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients receive intravenous infusions of trimetrexate glucuronate and leucovorin for 21
      days. Leucovorin is continued for 3 additional days after discontinuation of trimetrexate
      glucuronate.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Antiretroviral therapy (at the discretion of the treating physician and/or medical
             monitor).

        Patients must have:

          -  Presumptive or definitive diagnosis of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP).

          -  HIV positivity or be otherwise immunosuppressed.

          -  Demonstrated intolerance and/or resistance to trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole during
             the course of therapy for the current episode and not candidates for parenteral
             pentamidine, OR a documented history of such intolerance during a prior episode.

          -  Consent of parent or guardian if less than 18 years of age.

        NOTE:

          -  In general, patients who meet the eligibility criteria for other U.S.
             Bioscience-sponsored clinical trials for trimetrexate would not be eligible for this
             Compassionate Use protocol.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

        History of Type I hypersensitivity (i.e., urticaria, angioedema, or anaphylaxis),
        exfoliative dermatitis, or other life-threatening reactions to trimetrexate.
      
