TITLE:
High-Dose Topotecan and Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation in Treating Patients With Refractory Cancer

CONDITION:
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining chemotherapy with peripheral stem cell
      transplantation may allow the doctor to give higher doses of drugs and kill more tumor
      cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of high-dose topotecan and peripheral stem
      cell transplantation in treating patients with refractory cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose, toxicities, and preliminary antitumor activity of
           escalating doses of topotecan, with filgrastim (G-CSF) and peripheral blood stem cell
           support, when administered to patients with refractory malignancies for which no
           effective therapy exists.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Prior to stem cell harvesting, patients receive 1-2 courses of mobilizing salvage
      chemotherapy.

      After stem cell harvest, high-dose topotecan is administered according to an escalating
      dosage scale. Topotecan is given over 30 minutes daily for three days. A minimum of 3
      patients are entered at each dose level. The MTD is defined as the dose immediately below
      that at which 2 patients experience dose limiting toxicity.

      Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are infused at least 24 hours after treatment with
      topotecan is complete. Filgrastim (G-CSF) is administered subcutaneously beginning on the
      day PBSC are infused and continuing until blood counts recover.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Not specified
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed refractory malignancies for which no effective therapy is
             currently available

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  Over 18

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 3 months

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Total bilirubin no greater than 2.0 mg/dL

          -  No chronic active hepatitis

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine clearance at least 60 mL/min

        Cardiovascular:

          -  Left ventricular ejection fraction greater than 45%

        Pulmonary:

          -  DLCO greater than 60% of predicted

        Other:

          -  HIV negative

          -  No active infection

          -  No concurrent medical condition that would preclude therapy

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy (6 weeks since prior nitrosoureas or
             mitomycin)

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No radiotherapy to greater than 30% of bone marrow

          -  No wide field radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  Recovered from any prior surgery
      
