TITLE:
Phase I Trial of S-1153 in Patients With HIV Infection

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Capravirine

SUMMARY:

      To assess the toxicity profile and determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), if possible,
      of S-1153 administered orally 3 times daily for 14 days. To investigate the clinical
      pharmacokinetic parameters for S-1153. To assess anti-HIV activity associated with S-1153
      administration through evaluation of CD4 and viral load measurements.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Two separate schedules of S-1153 are administered on this study: single dose (2 dose
      levels/cohorts) and repeated dose administration over 14 days (escalation through 4 dose
      levels/cohorts). All doses are determined by body weight.

      Single-dose study (Cohort 1):

      (4 patients) low-dose po, following a standardized morning meal. (4 patients) low-dose po,
      fasting.

      Single-dose study (Cohort 2), administered during the first 3 levels of the repeated dose
      study and prior to the initiation of the 4th repeated dose level:

      (4 patients): intermediate-dose po, following a standardized morning meal. (4 patients):
      intermediate-dose po, fasted. Following treatment with S-1153, all single-dose patients
      (Cohorts 1and 2) are observed for 21 days.

      Repeated dose (escalation) study:

      All doses are administered for 14 days. Three patients are entered at the starting dose of
      S-1153. In the absence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), subsequent 3-patient cohorts are
      entered at 3 escalating doses.

      The last patient at any given dose level must be observed for 21 days prior to entry of
      patient at the next dose. If 1 of the initial 3 patients experiences DLT at a given level, 3
      additional patients will be added at that dose; if no additional toxicity occurs, escalation
      resumes. If 2 or more patients at a given dose exhibit DLT, the previous dose is declared
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and 3 additional patients (6 total) are treated at that
      dose.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        1. Required for patients with CD4 cell count lower than 200:

          -  PCP prophylaxis with aerosolized pentamidine, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, mepron,
             or dapsone.

          -  Allowed:

          -  Continuation on an approved antiretroviral agent other than non-nucleoside reverse
             transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., Nevirapine) or other specifically excluded prior
             medications, if received without complications for at least 4 weeks prior to study
             entry.

        Patients must have:

          -  Serologically documented HIV infection.

          -  Single-dose patients:

          -  CD4 cell count greater than 50 (no upper limit for single-dose cohorts).
             Repeated-dose patients:

          -  CD4 count from 50 to 500 within 35 days prior to entrance on study.

          -  No active opportunistic infection.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed for entry onto multiple-dose study:

          -  Single-dose portion of S-1153 study, provided all study visits and evaluations are
             completed, all eligibility criteria are met, and a minimum of 30 days has elapsed
             before Day 1 of the repeated-dose administration.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

        Active opportunistic infection.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

        Concomitant use (within 5 half-lives prior to administration and for at least 24 hours
        following cessation of treatment with S-1153) of highly plasma-bound drugs with narrow
        therapeutic indices, including but not limited to coumadin and dilantin.

        Prior Medication:

        1. Investigational new drugs.

          -  Excluded within 30 days prior to study entry:

          -  Chronic (greater than 7 days) use of drugs known to affect or be extensively
             metabolized by cytochromes P450, including but not limited to ketoconazole,
             fluconazole, itraconazole, isoniazid, rifampin, rifabutin, astemizole, terfenadine,
             or protease inhibitors.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded within 3 weeks prior to study entry:

          -  Cytotoxic chemotherapy.

          -  Interferon treatment.

          -  Radiation therapy.
      
