TITLE:
A Safety, Pilot Pharmacokinetics and Neurocognitive Study of AS-101 in Combination With Zidovudine in AIDS/ARC Patients

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Zidovudine

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate safety, pharmacokinetics, immunologic parameters and neurocognitive data for
      three dosages of AS-101 in combination with zidovudine (AZT) in patients with AIDS or AIDS
      related complex (ARC).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Required:

          -  Zidovudine (AZT).

          -  Aerosolized pentamidine for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) prophylaxis.

          -  Allowed ONLY with permission of the Wyeth-Ayerst medical monitor:

          -  Standard therapy for infections that develop during the study period.

          -  Oral acyclovir.

          -  Nystatin.

          -  Ketoconazole.

          -  Immunomodulators.

          -  Specific therapy for malignancies (including Kaposi's sarcoma).

        Patients must have the following:

          -  Diagnosis of AIDS or AIDS related complex (ARC).

          -  Provide informed written consent.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  Active opportunistic infection or malignancy requiring treatment at study entry.

          -  Prior history of psychiatric illness or head injury which in the judgment of the
             neuropsychologist would impair interpretation of the neurocognitive data.

          -  Evidence of central nervous system (CNS) opportunistic infection or malignancy.

          -  Serious underlying medical problems, including insulin- dependent diabetes mellitus,
             unstable ASHD (atherosclerotic heart disease) or uncontrolled hypertension, which may
             complicate interpretation of treatment results.

          -  Dementia.

          -  Evidence of = or > 2 + proteinuria at study entry.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded without permission of the Wyeth-Ayerst medical monitor:

          -  Immunomodulators.

          -  Specific therapy for malignancies (including Kaposi's sarcoma).

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Active opportunistic infection or malignancy requiring treatment at study entry.

          -  Prior history of psychiatric illness or head injury which in the judgment of the
             neuropsychologist would impair interpretation of the neurocognitive data.

          -  Evidence of conditions listed in the Patient Exclusion Co-existing Conditions.

          -  Active substance abuse.

          -  Unlikely or unable to comply with the requirements of the protocol.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 8 weeks of study entry:

          -  Immunomodulators.

          -  Antiviral therapy, except zidovudine.

          -  Excluded within 2 weeks of study entry:

          -  Intravenous or oral acyclovir.

          -  Excluded within 3 months of study entry:

          -  Ribavirin.

        Required:

          -  Zidovudine at a dose of = or > 1000 mg/day for at least 6 weeks prior to study entry.

        Active substance abuse.
      
