TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy and Interferon Alfa With or Without Bone Marrow or Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation in Treating Patients With Myeloma

CONDITION:
Multiple Myeloma and Plasma Cell Neoplasm

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining bone marrow or peripheral stem cell transplantation
      with chemotherapy may allow the doctor to give higher doses of chemotherapy drugs and kill
      more cancer cells. Interferon alfa may interfere with the growth of cancer cells. It is not
      yet known whether a more intensive chemotherapy regimen plus stem cell or bone marrow
      transplant is more effective than standard chemotherapy in treating patients with myeloma.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of two different regimens
      of combination chemotherapy plus interferon alfa with or without high dose melphalan or bone
      marrow or peripheral stem cell transplantation in treating patients with previously
      untreated myeloma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare survival of patients under age 65 with myeloma treated with standard
      ABCM (doxorubicin, carmustine, cyclophosphamide, melphalan) vs. intensive C-VAMP
      (cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin, methylprednisolone) followed by high-dose
      melphalan (with or without total-body irradiation) with bone marrow and peripheral blood
      stem cell support, both with IFN-A maintenance. II. Compare the toxicity profiles of the 2
      treatment arms. III. Compare the 2 treatment arms with respect to quality of life and health
      economics issues. IV. Investigate cellular changes by means of linked morphology, phenotype,
      and cytogenetics studies before and after treatment and at relapse.

      OUTLINE: Randomized study. The following acronyms are used: ABM Autologous Bone Marrow BCNU
      Carmustine, NSC-409962 CTX Cyclophosphamide, NSC-26271 DOX Doxorubicin, NSC-123127 G-CSF
      Granulocyte Colony Stimulating Factor (Amgen), NSC-614629 GM-CSF Granulocyte-Macrophage
      Colony Stimulating Factor (source not specified) IFN-A Interferon alpha (Hoffmann-La Roche),
      NSC-367982 L-PAM Melphalan, NSC-8806 MePRDL Methylprednisolone, NSC-19987 PBSC Peripheral
      Blood Stem Cells PRED Prednisone, NSC-10023 TBI Total-Body Irradiation VCR Vincristine,
      NSC-67574 ARM I. Induction: 4-Drug Combination Chemotherapy or, as indicated, 2-Drug
      Combination Chemotherapy. ABCM: DOX; BCNU; CTX; L-PAM; or, if pretreatment ANC and platelets
      are less than 1,300 and 75,000, CTX; PRED. Maintenance: Biological Response Modifier
      Therapy. IFN-A. ARM II. Induction: 4-Drug Combination Chemotherapy followed by Hematopoietic
      Stimulation. C-VAMP: DOX; VCR; MePRDL; CTX; followed by CTX; G-CSF or GM-CSF. Consolidation:
      3-Drug Combination Chemoablation with or without Radioablation followed by Hematopoietic
      Rescue. CTX; L-PAM; MePRDL; with or without TBI using megavoltage equipment (linear
      accelerator preferred); followed by ABM and/or PBSC. Maintenance: Biological Response
      Modifier Therapy. IFN-A.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 750 patients will be accrued.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 64 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Definite myeloma requiring chemotherapy and fulfilling at least 2
        of the following criteria: Neoplastic plasma cell infiltrate and/or microplasmacytomas on
        bone marrow aspiration and/or trephine Paraprotein in blood and/or urine Definite lytic
        bone lesions (not simply osteoporosis) No equivocal myeloma (such patients should be
        registered with the Clinical Trial Service Unit, Oxford)

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: Under 65 Performance status: Not specified Hematopoietic:
        (following rehydration and treatment for infection, if necessary) ANC at least 1,000
        Platelets at least 50,000 Hepatic: Not specified Renal: Renal insufficiency does not
        necessarily exclude (dose reduction may be applicable) Cardiovascular: No severe cardiac
        disease Past history of ischemic heart disease may exclude at the discretion of the
        investigator Pulmonary: No severe respiratory illness Other: Ability to tolerate at least
        3 liters/day of fluid No life-threatening disease unrelated to myeloma Prior or concurrent
        psychiatric disorder may exclude at the discretion of the investigator No prior malignancy
        except: Nonmelanomatous skin tumors In situ carcinomas

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: No prior therapy other than minimal local radiotherapy for
        relief of bone pain
      
