TITLE:
The Safety and Effectiveness of Ganciclovir Plus Interferon Beta in Preventing the Return of Cytomegalovirus (CMV) of the Eyes in Patients With AIDS

CONDITION:
Cytomegalovirus Retinitis

INTERVENTION:
Interferon beta-1b

SUMMARY:

      The use of ganciclovir (DHPG) in combination with interferon beta to prevent relapse of
      cytomegalovirus retinitis in patients with AIDS. While early clinical trials have shown that
      30 mg/kg/week of DHPG is usually sufficient to delay or prevent relapse, neutropenia is a
      common dose-limiting problem in about 50 percent of patients. Since in vitro data have
      suggested that there is synergism between DHPG and interferon beta against cytomegalovirus,
      a reduced dose of DHPG in combination with a low dose of interferon beta may prevent relapse
      without causing neutropenia. If remission can be maintained with low-dose DHPG and
      interferon beta, maintenance therapy with a moderate dose of interferon beta alone will be
      evaluated in a subsequent protocol.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must fulfill the CDC criteria for the diagnosis of AIDS. In addition, patients
        must have a typical clinical picture of cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis, a positive CMV
        culture from any site, and no other possible explanation for the retinal findings (e.g.,
        toxoplasmosis infection). Patients with AIDS in whom CMV retinitis is suspected will be
        examined by an ophthalmologist and, if, retinal lesions are seen, shall have a complete
        set of retinal photographs taken. CMV cultures of throat, buffy coat, urine, and if
        possible, semen will be obtained.

          -  Cytomegalovirus and toxoplasmosis serologic (IgG and IgM) tests will also be
             performed.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients not meeting inclusion criteria are excluded.

        Patients not meeting inclusion criteria are excluded.
      
