TITLE:
A Study Comparing Megestrol Acetate at 800 mg/Day, and Placebo in AIDS Patients With Anorexia and Cachexia

CONDITION:
Anorexia

INTERVENTION:
Megestrol acetate

SUMMARY:

      To compare the effects of megestrol acetate and placebo on body weight, anorexia, cachexia,
      calorie intake, and nutritional parameters of patients with a confirmed diagnosis of AIDS.
      To determine whether megestrol acetate relative to placebo improves the perception of
      well-being among AIDS patients with cachexia. To evaluate megestrol acetate's effect on
      immune function via skin test reactivity, T4/T8 ratio, and total lymphocytes.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patient must have:

          -  Confirmed diagnosis of AIDS (CDC definition).

          -  Documented weight loss or anorexia.

          -  Life expectancy = or > 20 weeks.

          -  The perception that the weight loss is a detriment to their well-being.

          -  Ability to provide informed consent, read and write English.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions are excluded:

          -  Dementia or evidence of mental incompetence which would preclude compliance with the
             protocol.

          -  Severe diarrhea defined as 5 or more watery stools per day for at least 7 days.

          -  Active uncontrolled systemic infections at the start of treatment.

          -  Patients may not be entered for at least 2 weeks after acute infection.

          -  Clinical or radiologic evidence of ascites or pleural effusions.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Obstruction to food intake or impaired digestive/absorptive functions.

          -  Contraindications to megestrol acetate (poorly controlled hypertension or heart
             failure or deep vein thrombosis).

          -  Inability to consent or be available for close follow-up.

          -  Active systemic infections at the start of treatment.

          -  Clinical or radiologic evidence of ascites or pleural effusions.

          -  Patients who have been hospitalized or have suffered an exacerbation of their illness
             associated with weight loss within the past 2 weeks are excluded.

          -  Menstruating female patients are excluded.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Corticosteroids.

          -  Anabolic steroids.

          -  Marijuana.

          -  Megestrol acetate.

          -  Patients who have been started on zidovudine (AZT) within 8 weeks. (Patients may have
             been previously treated with AZT and failed or may currently be receiving AZT for at
             least 8 weeks.)

        Patients may not be started on any therapy designed to treat the underlying HIV infection
        or which may have a major impact on appetite and/or weight gain.

          -  Patients who have been started on zidovudine (AZT) within 8 weeks. (Patients may have
             been previously treated with AZT and failed or may currently be receiving AZT for at
             least 8 weeks.)

        History of substance abuse and questionable current and future abstinence.
      
