TITLE:
Docetaxel in Treating Patients With Solid Tumors and Abnormal Liver Function

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
docetaxel

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of docetaxel in treating patients with
      advanced solid tumors that have not responded to standard therapy or for which there is no
      effective therapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of docetaxel in patients with advanced
      solid tumors and varying degrees of liver dysfunction. II. Determine the effects of liver
      dysfunction in these patients on the plasma pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of this
      therapy. III. Determine the utility of indocyanine green clearance and lidocaine metabolism
      as indicators of hepatic elimination of docetaxel in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      liver function (normal vs mild vs moderate vs severe). Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1
      hour. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients who achieve complete remission (CR) receive 2 additional courses past CR.
      Within each abnormal liver function stratum, cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating
      doses of docetaxel until the maximum tolerated dose is determined. The MTD is defined as the
      dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Within each
      abnormal liver function stratum, more than 6 patients are treated at the MTD, if possible.
      Patients in the normal liver function stratum are included as control patients and are
      followed for toxicity, but do not undergo dose escalation. Patients are followed for
      survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 45 patients will be accrued for this study within 12-18
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically proven solid tumor that is refractory to standard
        therapy or for which no standard therapy exists Eligible tumors, include, but are not
        limited to, the following: Breast Ovarian Head and neck Non-small cell lung cancer
        Abnormal liver function Control patients with normal liver function are enrolled Brain
        metastases allowed if controlled by radiotherapy or surgery and neurologic status
        currently stable Hormone receptor status: Not specified

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Sex: Not specified Menopausal status: Not
        specified Performance status: Karnofsky 50-100% Life expectancy: At least 1 month
        Hematopoietic: Neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm3 Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3
        Hemoglobin at least 9 g/dL OR Hematocrit at least 35% Hepatic: See Disease Characteristics
        No active acute hepatitis Renal: Creatinine no greater than 1.5 mg/dL OR Creatinine
        clearance at least 60 mL/min Cardiovascular: No concurrent cardiovascular disease that is
        poorly controlled with currently available treatment or of such severity as to preclude
        study Pulmonary: No concurrent pulmonary disease that is poorly controlled with currently
        available treatment or of such severity as to preclude study Other: No other concurrent
        illness (e.g., CNS disease) that is poorly controlled with currently available treatment
        or of such severity as to preclude study No severe infection requiring treatment Not
        pregnant Negative pregnancy test Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: No prior bone marrow transplantation
        Chemotherapy: At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy (6 weeks for mitomycin or
        nitrosoureas) and recovered Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: See Disease
        Characteristics At least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy and recovered No prior
        radiotherapy to more than 25% of bone marrow Surgery: See Disease Characteristics
        Recovered from major surgery
      
