TITLE:
High-Dose Melphalan, Total-Body Irradiation, and Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation in Treating Patients With Multiple Myeloma in First Relapse

CONDITION:
Multiple Myeloma and Plasma Cell Neoplasm

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor
      cells. Combining peripheral stem cell transplantation with chemotherapy and radiation
      therapy may allow the doctor to give higher doses of radiation and chemotherapy drugs and
      kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of high-dose melphalan plus total-body
      irradiation and peripheral stem cell transplantation in treating patients with multiple
      myeloma in first relapse.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Assess bone marrow reconstitution and peripheral blood cell counts of
      patients with multiple myeloma treated with high-dose melphalan (L-PAM) and total-body
      irradiation (TBI) followed by peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) rescue. II. Assess the
      efficacy of intravenous L-PAM and TBI for treatment of relapsing/refractory myeloma. III.
      Assess the tolerability and toxicity of this regimen in patients with relapsing multiple
      myeloma. IV. Assess response rate and survival of relapsing/refractory patients treated with
      this regimen.

      OUTLINE: Prior to entry, patients will have received 3 monthly courses of standard VAD
      followed by PBSC collection on Regimen A; those who responded to VAD continue standard VAD
      to best response and upon relapse (on or off therapy) proceed to Regimen B. Patients with no
      response to 3 courses of VAD and those with no response to an alkylating-based regimen
      proceed immediately to Regimen B following PBSC collection. The following acronyms are used:
      CTX Cyclophosphamide, NSC-26271 G-CSF Granulocyte Colony Stimulating Factor (Amgen),
      NSC-614629 L-PAM Melphalan, NSC-8806 PBSC Peripheral Blood Stem Cells VAD
      Vincristine/Doxorubicin/Dexamethasone TBI Total Body Irradiation Regimen A: Stem Cell
      Mobilization/Harvest. CTX; G-CSF. Regimen B: Single-Agent Myeloablative Chemoradiotherapy
      with Stem Cell Rescue. L-PAM; TBI (Co60 or linear accelerators of 4 MV or greater); with
      PBSC.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: If 9 or fewer or 20 or more responses are seen in the first 50 patients
      treated, the study will be discontinued.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Multiple myeloma confirmed by bone marrow plasmacytosis and with
        measurable M-component in the serum or urine by immunoelectrophoresis or immunofixation No
        Stage I myeloma No smoldering multiple myeloma Refractory to or in first relapse following
        an initial response to VAD (vincristine/doxorubicin/dexamethasone), with relapse defined
        as any of the following: 50% increase above the lowest remission level of serum or urine
        M-protein while on therapy 25-50% increase above the lowest remission level of serum or
        urine M-protein associated with either: Hypercalcemia (greater than 11 mg/dl) Hb decrease
        of 2 g/dl attributable to increasing marrow plasmacytosis Appearance of new lytic lesions
        Calcium no greater than 11 mg/dl No myeloma meningitis No plasma cell leukemia

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 to 65 Performance status: ECOG 0-2 Hematopoietic: WBC
        greater than 500 (after G-CSF) Platelets greater than 25,000 Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater
        than 2.0 mg/dl Renal: Creatinine no greater than 2.0 mg/dl Cardiovascular: No NYHA class
        II-IV disease Pulmonary: DLCO at least 50% of predicted FVC at least 75% of predicted FEV1
        at least 60% of predicted Other: No uncontrolled infection No active fungal infection No
        fever No prior malignancy within 5 years except: Basal cell skin cancer In situ carcinoma
        of the cervix No pregnant or nursing women

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Prior biological response modifiers allowed
        Chemotherapy: No time limit between cytotoxic therapy and protocol treatment Prior
        cumulative melphalan dose less than 300 mg Endocrine therapy: Corticosteroids for
        hypercalcemia allowed Radiotherapy: Prior radiotherapy allowed Prior pelvic radiotherapy
        allowed, but patients with such therapy are unlikely to have adequate PBSC harvested
        Surgery: Not specified
      
