TITLE:
The Safety and Effectiveness of 524W91

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Emtricitabine

SUMMARY:

      To assess the safety and pharmacokinetics of single oral doses of 524W91 administered in
      HIV-infected patients. To determine the effects of food on bioavailability of 524W91.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients are randomized to receive six single escalating doses of 524W91 or placebo, with
      each dose separated by at least a 6-day washout interval. In the time between 2 of the
      doses, the effect of food on pharmacokinetics will be investigated, with one dose
      administered in conjunction with a high-fat meal and one dose administered in a fasted
      state.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  Documented HIV infection.

          -  CD4 count >= 200 cells/mm3.

          -  No active opportunistic infection.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Malignancy or other condition that would confound study assessment or interfere with
             ability to complete the study.

          -  Malabsorption syndrome or other gastrointestinal dysfunction that might interfere
             with gastrointestinal absorption.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded on the day of each dose:

          -  Antiretrovirals.

          -  Any prescription or over-the-counter medication.

          -  Alcoholic beverages.

          -  Coffee, tea, and other xanthine-containing beverages and foods.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

        History of hepatitis, pancreatitis, or cardiomyopathy within the past 5 years.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Antiretrovirals within 24 hours prior to each dose.

          -  Any prescription or over-the-counter medications within 48 hours prior to each dose.

          -  Alcoholic beverages within 48 hours prior to each dose. Current alcohol or illicit
             drug use that may affect patient compliance.
      
