TITLE:
Randomized, Controlled, Double-Blind Study of Itraconazole Oral Solution Versus Fluconazole Tablets for the Treatment of Esophageal Candidiasis.

CONDITION:
Candidiasis, Esophageal

INTERVENTION:
Itraconazole

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the safety and efficacy of itraconazole oral solution versus fluconazole tablets
      for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis in immunocompromised patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  Esophageal candidiasis.

          -  Histological evidence of Candida spp. at baseline with confirmation by positive
             mycological culture.

          -  HIV infection or other predisposing risk factor.

          -  Life expectancy of at least 2 months.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Malignancies of the head or neck, if the treatment or disease will interfere with
             response assessment.

          -  Evidence of systemic fungal infection.

          -  Underlying clinical condition that would preclude study completion.

          -  Judged to be unreliable in regard to following physician's directives.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Rifampin.

          -  Rifabutin.

          -  Phenobarbital.

          -  Phenytoin.

          -  Carbamazepine.

          -  Terfenadine.

          -  Astemizole.

          -  H2 blockers.

          -  Continual antacids.

          -  Any investigational drug (expanded access drugs are allowed).

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of significant hepatic abnormalities or clinical evidence of hepatic disease
             within 2 months prior to study entry.

          -  History of hypersensitivity to imidazole or azole compounds.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Other orally administered antifungal therapy within 3 days prior to study entry.

          -  Any investigational drug within 1 month prior to study entry (expanded access drugs
             are allowed).
      
