TITLE:
A Comparison of DOX-SL Versus Adriamycin Plus Bleomycin Plus Vincristine in the Treatment of Severe AIDS-Related Kaposi's Sarcoma

CONDITION:
Sarcoma, Kaposi

INTERVENTION:
Doxorubicin hydrochloride (liposomal)

SUMMARY:

      To determine the efficacy of Stealth liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride (DOX-SL) in the
      treatment of severe AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) by comparison with the established
      therapy ABV: Adriamycin (doxorubicin)/bleomycin/vincristine. To evaluate the safety and
      tolerance of DOX-SL compared to ABV in a population of AIDS patients with severe KS.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients are randomized to receive either DOX-SL or the ABV combination. Infusions are given
      on day 1 and every 2 weeks for a total of six cycles. Kaposi's sarcoma lesions are evaluated
      prior to every cycle, at the end of the last treatment cycle, and 4 weeks following the end
      of the last treatment. Patients must agree to have one or more representative KS lesions
      biopsied.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Prophylaxis for PCP, cryptococcal, and herpes infections, and antiretroviral therapy
             (e.g., AZT, ddC, ddI) provided these doses have been stable for at least 1 month.

          -  Therapy for tuberculosis, fungal, and herpes infections except with potentially
             myelotoxic chemotherapy.

          -  Foscarnet for new episodes of cytomegalovirus infection.

          -  Colony-stimulating factors and erythropoietin.

        Patients must have:

          -  Biopsy-proven, progressive, AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma, with any of the following:

          -  At least 25 mucocutaneous lesions.

          -  Ten or more new lesions in the prior month.

          -  Documented visceral disease with at least two accessible cutaneous lesions.

          -  Two accessible cutaneous lesions with edema.

          -  Documented anti-HIV antibody.

          -  No active opportunistic infection with mycobacteria, cytomegalovirus, toxoplasma,
             Pneumocystis carinii, or other microorganisms (if under treatment with myelotoxic
             drugs).

          -  Life expectancy > 4 months.

        NOTE:

          -  Patients who respond to therapy on this protocol, as well as those who fail the ABV
             combination, are eligible to enter the Liposome Technology open trial using DOX-SL
             alone.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Clinically significant cardiac, hepatic, or renal disease.

          -  Peripheral neuropathy, signs of moderate to severe sensory loss, or moderate to
             marked motor loss.

          -  Inability to comply with the study.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Other cytotoxic chemotherapy.

          -  Ganciclovir.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  Prior neoplasms treated with extensive chemotherapy that, in the investigator's
             opinion, has led to irreversibly compromised bone marrow function.

          -  History of idiosyncratic or allergic reaction to bleomycin or vincristine.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Prior anthracycline therapy.

          -  Cytotoxic chemotherapy or interferon treatment within the past 4 weeks.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Radiation or electron beam therapy within the past 3 weeks.
      
