TITLE:
Development of Strategies to Increase Enrollment in Clinical Trials for Children With Cancer

CONDITION:
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors

INTERVENTION:
psychosocial assessment and care

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Taking part in a clinical trial may help children with cancer receive more
      effective treatment.

      PURPOSE: Determine why patients who are eligible for protocols made available through the
      Pediatric Oncology Group do not enroll in them, and develop strategies to increase
      enrollment on these clinical trials.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Identify prospectively physician and patient factors associated with reasons
      why patients who are eligible for Pediatric Oncology Group therapeutic protocols are not
      enrolled onto such studies. II. Provide information that may be used to develop intervention
      strategies to decrease barriers to patient enrollment, thus increasing enrollment in
      therapeutic protocols.

      OUTLINE: This is a case-control, multicenter study. Case patients are stratified. Stratum 1
      comprises patients for whom there is an appropriate Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) frontline
      therapeutic protocol that has not yet been submitted to, disapproved by, or approved by the
      Institutional Review Board (IRB). Stratum 2 comprises patients for whom there is an
      appropriate POG frontline therapeutic protocol that has been approved by the IRB. Physicians
      complete an IRB submission form for their patients on stratum 1. Patients/parents on stratum
      2 who refused enrollment and their primary physicians complete questionnaires that address
      reasons for nonenrollment. Control patients/parents who consented to enrollment complete
      questionnaires that address reasons for enrollment. Demographic information, including the
      size of the treating institution and the annual number of patients enrolled onto its
      protocols, is collected. Additional demographic information regarding the patient and his or
      her family is collected.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 595 case patients (12 with soft tissue sarcoma, 34 with
      osteosarcoma, 19 with brain tumors, 32 with Hodgkin's disease, 60 with non-Hodgkin's
      lymphoma, 278 with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, 65 with acute non-lymphoblastic leukemia,
      56 with neuroblastoma, 14 with hepatoblastoma, and 25 with germ cell tumors) will be accrued
      for this study within 7 years. Corresponding control patients will be accrued for this
      study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 21 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Case or control patient clinically eligible for a Pediatric
        Oncology Group (POG) frontline therapeutic protocol, whether or not the protocol was
        submitted to or approved by the physician's Institutional Review Board Case patients must
        not have enrolled on the POG frontline protocol due to decision by the physician or
        patient/parent Control patients must have been enrolled on the POG frontline protocol
        Ineligible if offered treatment on an in-house therapeutic protocol (institutional review
        board-approved) rather than the POG protocol

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 21 and under Performance status: Not specified Life
        expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic: Not specified Renal: Not
        specified

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: Not specified
        Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: Not specified Surgery: Not specified
      
