TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy Given With Radiation Therapy or Radiation Therapy Alone in Treating Patients With Early-Stage Hodgkin's Disease

CONDITION:
Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
bleomycin sulfate

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining radiation therapy with chemotherapy may kill more
      tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy
      plus radiation therapy with radiation therapy alone in treating patients with early-stage
      Hodgkin's disease.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the recurrence rate and long term survival of patients with early
      stage Hodgkin's disease given vincristine/doxorubicin/prednisolone/
      etoposide/cyclophosphamide/bleomycin (VAPEC-B) chemotherapy and involved field radiation vs
      mantle radiotherapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized multicenter study. Patients are randomized to receive either
      vincristine/doxorubicin/prednisolone/etoposide/cyclophosphamide/ bleomycin (VAPEC-B)
      chemotherapy and involved field radiotherapy or mantle radiotherapy only. Patients receiving
      VAPEC-B are given prednisolone daily on weeks 1-6, doxorubicin IV along with
      cyclophosphamide IV on week 1, doxorubicin IV and etoposide orally for 5 days on week 3, and
      vincristine and bleomycin IV on weeks 2 and 4. Involved field radiotherapy is commenced at
      week 6, within 14 to 21 days of the last chemotherapy treatment. Patients randomized to
      receive mantle radiotherapy only are given treatments daily for 4 weeks. Patients are
      followed every 3 months for the first two years, every 4 months for the third year, every 6
      months for the fourth and fifth years and annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 400 patients will be accrued over 4-5 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to 75 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically proven stage IA or IIA Hodgkin's disease without
        mediastinal bulk Patients with Hodgkin's disease existing below diaphragm only are not
        eligible

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 16 to 75 Performance status: Not specified Life expectancy:
        Not specified Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic: Not specified Renal: Not specified
        Other: Not HIV positive No prior malignancy other than basal cell carcinoma or cervical
        intraepithelial neoplasia

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: No prior treatment
      
