TITLE:
A Study of ISIS 2922 in the Treatment of Advanced Cytomegalovirus Retinitis

CONDITION:
Cytomegalovirus Retinitis

INTERVENTION:
Fomivirsen sodium

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to compare the safety and effectiveness of two dosage schedules
      for ISIS 2922 in the treatment of advanced cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This is a multicenter, prospective, randomized, open-label study comparing 2 dosage
      schedules of ISIS 2922.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Oral ganciclovir.

          -  Leukocyte growth factors (GM-CSF and G-CSF) for patients with febrile neutropenia.

        Patients must have:

          -  Documented AIDS.

          -  Clinical diagnosis of advanced CMV retinitis in 1 or both eyes.

          -  >= 2 previous induction courses with anti-CMV retinitis therapy licensed by a
             regulatory agency.

          -  > 25% retinal involvement with CMV retinitis.

          -  Baseline CMV retinitis lesions which have leading edges > 1000 micrograms from the
             macula or optic disk.

        Prior Medication:

        Required:

          -  >= 2 previous induction courses with anti-CMV retinitis therapy licensed by a
             regulatory agency.

        Allowed:

          -  All anti-CMV therapies other than ganciclovir must be discontinued no less than 2
             days prior to entry.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms and conditions are excluded:

          -  External ocular infection in the eye to be treated.

          -  Other herpetic infections of the retina, toxoplasma, retinochoroiditis, or other
             disease of the fundus that would preclude assessment of CMV retinitis in the eye to
             be treated.

          -  Ocular conditions that will obstruct visualization of the posterior ocular structures
             on the eye to be treated.

          -  Retinal detachment in the eye to be treated.

          -  Ganciclovir implant in the eye to be treated.

          -  Known or suspected allergy to phosphorothioate oligonucleotides or intolerance of
             ISIS 2922.

          -  Silicone oil in the eye to be treated.

          -  Pseudoretinitis pigmentosa.

          -  Syphilis.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of surgery to correct retinal detachment in the eye to be treated.

          -  History of syphilis.

             1. Systemic anti-CMV therapies other than oral ganciclovir.

          -  Mellaril, Stelazine, chlorpromazine and clofazimine.

          -  Combination use of ethambutol and fluconazole.

          -  Investigational medications and/or procedures for the treatment of CMV retinitis in
             the eye to be treated.

          -  Ganciclovir implant delivery device in the eye to be treated.

          -  Ganciclovir other than oral.

          -  Foscarnet.
      
