TITLE:
A Multiple Dose Crossover Pharmacokinetics Study to Evaluate the Effects of Food on the Absorption of Oral Ganciclovir

CONDITION:
Cytomegalovirus Infections

INTERVENTION:
Ganciclovir

SUMMARY:

      This study is designed to determine the influence of food on the absorption and relative
      bioavailability of oral ganciclovir by comparing the absorption of oral ganciclovir in a fed
      and fasting state at steady state plasma levels.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have the following:

          -  Confirmation of HIV infection by HIV antibody testing, p24 antigen, or culture of
             HIV.

          -  Documented confirmation of present or past CMV infection.

          -  Must understand the nature of the study, agree to tests required in the protocol, and
             must understand and sign an informed Consent form approved by the appropriate
             Institutional Review Board and by Syntex.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  Uncontrolled diarrhea or clinically significant gastrointestinal symptoms including
             persistent nausea or abdominal pain.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Antimetabolites. Interferons. Other nucleoside analogs. Zidovudine (AZT). Any
             investigational drug.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Any concomitant conditions listed in Exclusion Co-Existing Conditions.

          -  Karnofsky score < 70.

          -  Hypersensitivity to acyclovir.

          -  Displaying signs of dementia or decreased mentation which would interfere with the
             ability of the subject to follow protocol schedule.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Anti-cytomegalovirus therapy including ganciclovir therapy for treatment of CMV
             disease.

          -  Excluded within 4 days of study entry:

          -  Antimetabolites.

          -  Interferons.

          -  Other nucleoside analogs.

          -  Zidovudine (AZT).
      
