TITLE:
Radiation Therapy or No Further Treatment Following Surgery in Treating Patients With Cancer of the Uterus

CONDITION:
Endometrial Cancer

INTERVENTION:
radiation therapy

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. It is not yet
      known whether receiving radiation therapy or no further therapy after surgery is more
      effective for cancer of the uterus.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of radiation therapy with
      that of no further therapy in treating patients who have stage I or stage II cancer of the
      uterus that has been surgically removed.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the rates of pelvic recurrence and development of distant metastases
      in patients with completely resected, stage I or II, high-grade uterine sarcoma treated with
      adjuvant pelvic radiotherapy vs observation alone.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      center, tumor histology (leiomyosarcoma vs mixed mesodermal sarcoma vs endometrial stromal
      sarcoma), and surgical procedure (total abdominal hysterectomy (TAH) with or without
      bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO) vs TAH and BSO with pelvic and para-aortic node
      sampling and random biopsies). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Arm I:
      Beginning within 6 weeks after surgery, patients undergo pelvic radiotherapy 5 days a week
      for 5.6 weeks. Arm II: Patients undergo observation alone. Patients are followed every 2
      months for 1 year, every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 200 patients (100 per arm) will be accrued for this study
      within 3 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically proven high-grade uterine sarcoma Eligible
        subtypes: Leiomyosarcoma Mixed mesodermal (mullerian) sarcoma Endometrial sarcoma
        Surgically proven stage I or II (T1-2, N0, M0) disease No leiomyoma with a high mitotic
        activity index after hormonal therapy (especially estrogen) Mixoid leiomyosarcoma with a
        low mitotic activity index allowed Completely resected disease Prior abdominal
        hysterectomy as minimal surgical procedure required

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: Any age Performance status: WHO 0-2 Life expectancy: Not
        specified Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic: Not specified Renal: Not specified Other:
        No other prior malignancy except basal cell skin cancer or carcinoma in situ of the cervix
        No serious mental disorder

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: Not specified
        Endocrine therapy: See Disease Characteristics Radiotherapy: No prior radiotherapy
        Surgery: See Disease Characteristics
      
