TITLE:
A Phase I Study of Three Doses of OPC-8212 (Vesnarinone) in HIV-Infected Persons With CD4+ Cell Number > 300 Cells/mm3

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Vesnarinone

SUMMARY:

      To examine the safety and tolerance of three doses of oral vesnarinone in HIV-infected
      patients with CD4 count > 300 cells/mm3.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Twelve patients per dose level receive vesnarinone at 1 of 3 doses for 12 weeks. At least
      six patients at a given dose level must have completed 2 weeks of treatment before dose is
      escalated in subsequent patients.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Chemoprophylaxis for Pneumocystis carinii, candida, mycobacteria, and herpes simplex.

        Patients must have:

          -  Asymptomatic HIV infection.

          -  CD4 count > 300 cells/mm3.

          -  No prior AIDS-defining illness or current constitutional symptoms of HIV disease.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Current history of cardiac disease, including patients who exhibit long QT syndrome
             on EKG screening.

          -  Active malignancy other than cutaneous basal cell carcinoma or in situ carcinoma of
             the cervix.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Antiretroviral agents, including ddI, ddC, and AZT.

          -  Immunosuppressive agents.

          -  Investigational HIV drugs/therapies including vaccines.

          -  Interferon.

          -  Steroids (other than topical).

          -  Hematopoietins.

          -  Megestrol acetate.

          -  Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole in excess of 160 mg trimethoprim and 800 mg
             sulfamethoxazole thrice weekly.

          -  Cytotoxic chemotherapy.

        Concurrent Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Radiation therapy.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  Prior history of cardiac disease.

          -  History of agranulocytosis or severe (grade 3) drug-induced neutropenia or documented
             abnormalities in granulocyte number or function.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  AZT, ddI, and ddC within 14 days prior to study entry.

          -  Prior cytotoxic chemotherapy.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Radiation therapy (including electron beam irradiation) within 30 days prior to study
             entry.

        Active illicit drug abuse.
      
