TITLE:
A Study of Tecogalan Sodium

CONDITION:
Sarcoma, Kaposi

INTERVENTION:
Tecogalan sodium

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the safety of different doses and dosing regimens of tecogalan sodium (DS-4152)
      and to establish the MTD at each of the different dosing schedules.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients receive intravenous DS-4152 by infusion twice weekly for 21 days, followed by 2
      weeks of rest; courses may repeat. Patients undergo weekly follow-up. A punch biopsy will be
      obtained from patients with Kaposi's sarcoma.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  Kaposi's sarcoma plus HIV infection OR metastatic solid tumor.

          -  Life expectancy of at least 12 weeks.

          -  NO symptomatic AIDS-defining opportunistic infection within the past 4 weeks.

          -  Recovered from toxicity of any prior anticancer therapy.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Leukemia or lymphoma.

          -  Current gastrointestinal bleeding by stool guaiac.

          -  Extensive bone metastases or significant radiographic osteoporosis in patients with
             solid tumors.

          -  Active heart disease such as uncontrolled angina, uncompensated congestive heart
             failure, or dysrhythmias requiring antiarrhythmics.

          -  Acute intercurrent infection other than genital herpes.

          -  Symptomatic or known central nervous system involvement (including brain metastases)
             unless stable and off therapy.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Other anticancer therapy.

          -  Other investigational agents.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of acute or chronic gastrointestinal bleeding or inflammatory bowel disease.

          -  History of myocardial infarction within past 6 months.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Anticancer therapy within the past 3 weeks (6 weeks for nitrosourea or mitomycin C).

          -  Investigational agents within the past 4 weeks.
      
