TITLE:
A Comparison of Dapsone and Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole in the Treatment of Pneumocystis Carinii Pneumonia (PCP) in Patients With AIDS

CONDITION:
Pneumonia, Pneumocystis Carinii

INTERVENTION:
Trimethoprim

SUMMARY:

      Evaluate the effectiveness rate of dapsone plus trimethoprim as a therapy for the first
      episode of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) in AIDS patients. Compare the rates and
      severity of adverse effects using dapsone versus trimethoprim - sulfamethoxazole (TMP /
      PurposeX). Establish relative toxicities with regard to suitability for outpatient
      treatment.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Exclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Requirement for other medications found to be effective in the treatment of
             Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) (i.e., DFMO, pyrimethamine, and sulfadiazine).

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  History of allergic reaction to dapsone.

          -  Requirement for other medications found to be effective in the treatment of
             Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) (i.e., DFMO, pyrimethamine, and sulfadiazine).

          -  Patients subsequently found to be glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) positive
             will be withdrawn from the study and treated with another regimen.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Requirement for other medications found to be effective in the treatment of
             Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) (i.e., DFMO, pyrimethamine, and sulfadiazine).

        Patients who are glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) positive will be withdrawn from
        the study and treated with another regimen.

        Hospitalized patients with first episode of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP)
        documented by GIEMSA or methenamine stain.

          -  Patients must:

          -  Be willing and able to give informed consent.

          -  Be expected to survive 1 week without therapy.

          -  Have less than 48 hours of treatment for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) for
             this episode.
      
