TITLE:
A Multicenter Phase II/III, Placebo-Controlled Study of SNX-111 Administered Intrathecally to Cancer and AIDS Patients With Chronic Pain

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Ziconotide

SUMMARY:

      To determine the safety and efficacy of SNX-111 in controlling severe, chronic pain in
      cancer and AIDS patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients are randomized to receive SNX-111 or placebo (AS PER AMENDMENT 1/22/98: with
      randomization weighted 2:1 in favor of SNX-111) via external pump and an intrathecal
      catheter (thin tube inserted into the spinal canal). (AS PER AMENDMENT 1/22/98: the dose is
      increased every 24 hours, in the absence of onset of analgesia or adverse events. After 2-5
      days, patients who respond to their medication continue treatment at home for 5-8 days.
      Patients who do not respond will be switched to the other regimen (i.e., placebo to SNX-111,
      or SNX-111 to placebo). After 10 days, responding patients are unblinded and asked to enroll
      in the long-term, open-label extension protocol. Patients remain on a fixed dose at the
      therapeutic level found in the previous study. The dose may be increased or decreased at the
      discretion of the investigator. Patients may continue therapy on a long-term basis until the
      drug is approved.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Rescue analgesia.

        Patients must have:

          -  Chronic pain related to AIDS or cancer.

          -  Unsatisfactory response to prior opioid therapy.

          -  Life expectancy > 3 months (or 1 month if an infusion pump is in place).

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Signs of sepsis or inadequately treated infection.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

        History of heart disease, heart failure, or asthma.
      
