TITLE:
S9715, Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Advanced Cancer of the Nasopharynx

CONDITION:
Head and Neck Cancer

INTERVENTION:
cisplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor
      cells. Combining more than one drug and combining chemotherapy with radiation therapy may
      kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of chemotherapy plus radiation therapy in
      treating patients with advanced cancer of the nasopharynx.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Gather additional information and experience regarding the preferred
      treatment from clinical trial SWOG-8892, chemoradiation for patients with advanced
      nasopharyngeal cancers (NPC). II. Evaluate survival and progression-free survival and
      patterns of tumor failure in this new group of patients. III. Assess severe or lethal
      toxicities that may be encountered after this regimen is employed more widely. IV. Collect
      NPC tumor specimens for ongoing and future clinical correlative research.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive cisplatin by intravenous infusion on day 1 over a 15-20 minute
      period. This is repeated every 21 days for the first three initial treatments. Patients also
      receive radiation therapy once daily five times a week during this cycle of treatment.
      Approximately three weeks after completion of the above treatment, patients are given
      cisplatin by intravenous infusion over 15-20 minutes as above but at a lower dose. On the
      same day as cisplatin infusion, patients receive fluorouracil by continuous intravenous
      infusion over 24 hours for 4 days in a row. This is repeated every 28 days for a total of 3
      treatments. Patients are followed until death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 100 patients will be accrued.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically proven nasopharyngeal carcinoma (excluding
        adenocarcinoma), stage III or IV with no evidence of distant metastatic disease (M0) No
        lung, bone, or liver metastases as proven within 42 days of registration by: -CT scan or
        nucleotide study of the chest or chest x-ray -liver and bone scan if alkaline phosphatase
        is greater than the institutional upper limit of normal (ULN), or if clinically indicated
        -liver scan if SGOT is greater than the institutional ULN

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: Any age Performance status: SWOG 0-2 Life expectancy: Not
        specified Hematopoietic: Absolute granulocyte count at least 1,500/mm3 Platelet count at
        least 75,000/mm3 Hepatic: Not specified Renal: Creatinine no greater than 1.6 mg/dL AND/OR
        Creatinine clearance at least 50 mL/minute Other: Not pregnant or nursing Women/men of
        reproductive potential must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: No previous
        chemotherapy to the primary site or nodes Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy:
        No previous radiotherapy (except for nonmelanomatous skin cancer outside of the radiation
        therapy treatment volume) Surgery: No previous surgery to the primary site or nodes
      
