TITLE:
A Randomized, Parallel Arm, Comparative, Open Label, Multicenter Study of the Activity and Safety of Two Formulations of Saquinavir in Combination With Other Antiretroviral Drugs

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Saquinavir

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the antiviral activity and safety of two formulations of saquinavir in
      combination with licensed nucleoside antiretroviral drugs.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients are randomized to receive either hard gel or soft gel capsules of saquinavir in
      combination with at least one licensed nucleoside antiretroviral. Treatment will continue
      for 48 weeks. After the first 16 weeks, patients will be given the opportunity to roll over
      to the saquinavir formulation of choice.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV infection.

          -  Antiretroviral naiveness (i.e., less than 4 weeks of prior treatment) to at least one
             of the licensed nucleoside drugs.

          -  No more than 2 weeks of prior treatment with a protease inhibitor.

          -  No active opportunistic infection or other serious AIDS-defining condition.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Malabsorption or inadequate oral intake.

          -  Lab or clinical abnormality worse than grade 3 (other than exercise-induced CPK
             elevations).

          -  Unexplained, chronic diarrhea, defined as more than three loose stools per day
             persisting for 2 weeks or more within the month prior to study entry.

          -  Active malignancy or anticipated need for chemotherapy during the study.

          -  Anticipated need for disallowed medications during the study.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Other protease inhibitors.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  More than 4 weeks of the prior nucleoside antiretroviral selected for the patient's
             regimen.

          -  More than 2 weeks of any protease inhibitor.
      
