TITLE:
Open-Label "Compassionate" Use Study of Spiramycin for the Treatment of Diarrhea Due to Chronic Cryptosporidiosis in Immunocompromised Patients

CONDITION:
Cryptosporidiosis

INTERVENTION:
Spiramycin

SUMMARY:

      This protocol provides for the availability of spiramycin under compassionate-use conditions
      for the treatment of chronic diarrhea due to cryptosporidium in patients with a compromised
      immune system, thus deriving additional information regarding its safety and efficacy
      profile.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with known sensitivity to macrolide antibiotics are excluded. Consideration must
        be given to the fact that spiramycin is a macrolide antibiotic and, therefore, may have
        the potential to induce hepatotoxicity.

          -  Patients with a compromised immune system may have hepatic abnormalities or even
             hepatitis. If the benefit-to-risk ratio does not favor the use of spiramycin, the
             patients must be excluded from the study.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Other investigational drugs.

        Patients with known sensitivity to macrolide antibiotics are excluded. Consideration must
        be given to the fact that spiramycin is a macrolide antibiotic and, therefore, may have
        the potential to induce hepatotoxicity.

          -  Patients with a compromised immune system may have hepatic abnormalities or even
             hepatitis. If the benefit-to-risk ratio does not favor the use of spiramycin, the
             patients must be excluded from the study.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 7 days of study entry:

          -  Other investigational drugs.

        Diagnosis of chronic diarrhea due to cryptosporidiosis and a compromised immune system but
        not limited to patients with AIDS.

          -  Patients receiving chemotherapy for a malignancy.

          -  Patients who are iatrogenically immune-suppressed following organ transplantation.
      
