TITLE:
Placebo-Controlled Trial of Safety and Efficacy of Thalidomide in Patients With Infections Due to Mycobacterium and/or HIV

CONDITION:
Mycobacterium Avium-Intracellulare Infection

INTERVENTION:
Thalidomide

SUMMARY:

      To demonstrate, in patients with tubercular or nontubercular mycobacterium infections with
      or without HIV infection, the safety of thalidomide use as judged by symptoms, physical
      exam, and studies of microbiologic, immunologic, hematologic, renal, and hepatic status. To
      demonstrate efficacy of the drug as judged by status of fever, nutrition, tuberculosis
      lesions, and immune responses.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients are randomized to receive thalidomide or placebo orally at 9 PM the night before
      beginning anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy and continuing nightly for 7 nights. Patients are
      followed for 28 days. Patients are stratified according to HIV status and stage of HIV
      infection.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  Positive AFB smear and/or culture for Mycobacterium tuberculosis, M. avium, or other
             mycobacterial infection, with or without documented HIV infection. NOTE:

          -  HIV-positive patients must have CD4 count < 500 cells/mm3 and be on antiretroviral
             therapy.

          -  One of the following manifestations:

          -  Temperature over 38 C on at least two occasions in the week prior to study entry.

          -  Recent weight loss of more than 5 kilograms.

          -  Pulmonary involvement of one or more lobes or involvement of other tissues due to
             tuberculosis or other mycobacterial infections, or symptomatic infections related to
             HIV status.

          -  Night sweats on two or more occasions in the week prior to study entry.

        NOTE:

          -  Patients must be hospitalized men aged 18-65 and postmenopausal women to age 65.
             Anticipated requirement for hospitalization must be at least 10 days.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Neuropathy or other disorders with risk of neuropathy.

        Required for HIV-positive patients if CD4 count < 500 cells/mm3:

          -  Antiretroviral therapy.
      
