TITLE:
Etoposide Plus Cisplatin in Treating Patients With Recurrent Ependymomas

CONDITION:
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors

INTERVENTION:
cisplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy in treating
      patients with recurrent ependymomas following radiation therapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Assess the efficacy and toxicity of etoposide and cisplatin in patients with
      recurrent ependymomas.

      OUTLINE: All patients receive cisplatin followed by etoposide on days 1-3. Treatment repeats
      every 4 weeks for a total of 6 courses unless disease progression or unacceptable toxicity
      intervenes. The etoposide dose may be increased by 10% on subsequent courses if the white
      blood cell and platelet nadirs on the previous course are at least 3,000 and 100,000,
      respectively. Patients are followed every 2 months for 6 months, then every 3 months for 4.5
      years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 35 patients will be entered over approximately 7 years if
      there are 3-8 responses in the first 13 patients and 7-9 responses in the first 25 patients.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed ependymoma that is recurrent after
        radiotherapy Histologic confirmation of recurrence encouraged but not required in patients
        with pure ependymoma at diagnosis and unequivocal radiologic evidence of recurrence
        Histologic confirmation of recurrence required in patients with mixed histology at
        diagnosis Ependymoma at least 80% of histology No subependymoma Measurable or evaluable
        disease on imaging exam

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: ECOG 0-3 Hematopoietic: WBC
        at least 3,500 Platelets at least 130,000 Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than 0.3 mg/dL
        above normal Renal: Creatinine no greater than 0.3 mg/dL above normal Cardiovascular: No
        NYHA class III/IV status Other: No uncontrolled infection No pregnant or nursing women
        Negative pregnancy test required of fertile women Effective contraception required of
        fertile patients

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: No prior cisplatin
        or etoposide At least 4 weeks since chemotherapy (6 weeks since nitrosoureas) Endocrine
        therapy: Steroid dose stable for at least 1 week prior to entry if indicator lesion in CNS
        Radiotherapy: See Disease Characteristics At least 4 weeks since radiotherapy Surgery: Not
        specified
      
