TITLE:
A Phase I, Open Label Trial to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerance and Biological Effects of SDZ ILE-964 (Recombinant Human Interleukin-3, RhIL-3) in HIV Infected Patients With Cytopenia

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Interleukin-3

SUMMARY:

      To determine the safety, tolerability and maximum tolerated dose of SDZ ILE 964 administered
      by daily subcutaneous injections in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus
      (HIV) who have cytopenias (low blood cell counts). To obtain information about the biologic
      effects of SDZ ILE 964 administration in improving blood counts in HIV-infected patients. To
      obtain information about the effects of SDZ ILE-964 administration on both parameters of HIV
      replication and on residual immunologic function.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV seropositivity by Western blot.

          -  Advanced ARC or AIDS as defined by CDC.

          -  Cytopenia defined as total peripheral leukocyte count of < 3,000 cells/mm3 or
             platelet count of < 100,000 cells/mm3 or serum hemoglobin < 10 g/dl.

          -  Anticipated life expectancy = or > 6 months.

          -  Ambulatory.

          -  Willing to sign informed consent.

          -  Willing to forego use of any other investigational therapies except ddI.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed > 2 weeks prior to study entry:

          -  zidovudine.

          -  Allowed > 4 weeks prior to study entry:

          -  systemic cytotoxic chemotherapy; investigational drugs; medications known to be
             myelosuppressive as ganciclovir, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole or dapsone.

          -  Allowed > 6 weeks prior to study entry:

          -  other hemopoietic growth factor treatment as GM-CSF, EPO.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  Active opportunistic infection.

          -  Symptoms of CNS disease referable to HIV infection.

          -  Dementia or altered mental status that would prohibit giving and understanding
             informed consent.

        Systemic chemotherapy.

          -  Investigational therapies other than ddI.

          -  Medications with known myelosuppressive effects such as ganciclovir,
             trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole or dapsone or AZT.

          -  Other hematopoietic growth factor treatments as GM-CSF, G-CSF, or EPO.

        Prophylactic therapy for pneumocystis or oral thrush.

          -  ddI.

          -  Corticosteroids or topical corticosteroid creams.

        Patients may not have:

          -  Life expectancy < 6 months.

          -  Active drug or alcohol abuse.

          -  Active opportunistic infections.

          -  Treatment with any other investigational drugs except ddI within 4 weeks of study
             entry.

          -  Dementia or altered mental state that prohibits giving informed consent.

          -  Symptoms of CNS disease referable to HIV infection.

          -  Major surgery within 4 weeks of study entry.

          -  History of major pulmonary or cardiac disease.

          -  History of any prior malignancy other than Kaposi's sarcoma or noninvasive
             subcutaneous carcinoma.

          -  Documented allergic disorder such as asthma, history of anaphylaxis, atopy, serum
             sickness, or bronchospasm.

        Not allowed within 2 weeks prior to study entry:

          -  zidovudine (AZT).

          -  Not allowed within 4 weeks prior to study entry:

          -  systemic cytotoxic chemotherapy; investigational drugs other than ddI; medications
             known to be myelosuppressive as ganciclovir, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole or
             dapsone.

          -  Not allowed within 6 weeks prior to study entry:

          -  other hematopoietic growth factor treatment as GM-CSC, G-CSF, EPO.

        Radiation therapy or major surgery within 4 weeks of study entry.

        Active drug or alcohol abuse.
      
