TITLE:
Biological Therapy in Treating Patients at High-Risk or With Lymphoma, Lymphoproliferative Disease, or Malignancies

CONDITION:
EBV-induced Lymphomas

INTERVENTION:
allogeneic Epstein-Barr virus-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this phase I/II trial is to study the side effects and best dose of
      biological therapy to treat patients at high-risk or with Epstein-Barr virus-associated
      lymphoma or lymphoproliferative disease.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Pathologically documented EBV antigen positive lymphoproliferative disease, lymphoma,
             or other EBV-associated malignancy OR

          -  Severely immunocompromised patients who develop blood levels of EBV DNA exceeding 500
             copies/ml DNA, and are therefore at high risk for developing an EBV LPD

        It is expected that five types of patients afflicted with EBV-associated lymphomas or
        lymphoproliferative diseases will be referred and will consent to participate in this
        trial. These are:

          1. Patients developing or at risk for EBV lymphomas or lymphoproliferative disorders
             following an allogeneic marrow transplant.

          2. Patients developing or at risk for EBV lymphomas or lymphoproliferative disorders
             following an allogeneic organ transplant.

          3. Patients with AIDS developing EBV lymphomas or lymphoproliferative diseases as a
             consequence of the profound acquired immunodeficiency induced by HIV.

          4. Patients who develop EBV lymphomas or lymphoproliferative diseases as a consequence
             of profound immunodeficiencies associated with a congenital immune deficit or
             acquired as a sequela of anti-neoplastic or immunosuppressive therapy.

          5. Patients who develop other EBV-associated malignancies without pre-existing immune
             deficiency, including: EBV+ Hodgkin's and Non- Hodgkin's disease, EBV+ nasopharyngeal
             carcinoma, EBV+ hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis, or EBV+ leiomyosarcoma.

        Exclusion Criteria:

        The following patients will be excluded from this study:

          -  Moribund patients who, by virtue of heart, kidney, liver, lung, or neurologic
             dysfunction not related to lymphoma, are unlikely to survive the 6-8 weeks required
             for in vitro generation and expansion of the EBV-specific T cells to be used for
             therapy and the subsequent 3 weeks required to achieve an initial assessment of the
             effects of infusions of EBV-specific T cells.

          -  Pregnancy does not constitute a contraindication to infusions of EBV-specific T
             cells.
      
