TITLE:
A Study of Saquinavir Soft Gel Capsules (SGC) Used in Combination With Two Other Anti-HIV Drugs in Patients With HIV-Associated Kidney Disease

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Nelfinavir mesylate

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to compare the safety and effectiveness of saquinavir SGC plus
      stavudine (d4T) plus lamivudine (3TC) with that of saquinavir SGC plus nelfinavir plus d4T
      in patients with HIV-associated kidney disease. This study examines whether these drug
      combinations are effective in preventing kidney disease from progressing to a stage where it
      is immediately life threatening. This study also examines the effect these drug combinations
      have on the level of HIV detected in these patients. Finally, this study evaluates the drug
      level (the amount of drug found in the body) of these two combinations in patients with
      kidney disease.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This is an open-label, non-comparative, randomized, single center, 24-week study. Patients
      are stratified into 3 groups (8 patients in each group) based on kidney function:

      Group 1: Serum creatine less than 2 mg/dL. Group 2: Serum creatine 2-5 mg/dL. Group 3: Serum
      creatine greater than 5 mg/dL.

      All 24 patients are randomized 1:1 to receive 1 of 2 study regimens:

      Arm A: Saquinavir SGC plus d4T plus 3TC. Arm B: Saquinavir SGC plus nelfinavir plus d4T.
      Patients are seen at Weeks 4, 8, 12, and 24. At Week 24, a kidney biopsy is performed with
      patient consent.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  Detectable HIV-1 RNA by Amplicor assay.

          -  Biopsy-proven nephropathy.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Saquinavir and nelfinavir.

          -  d4T or 3TC within the past 4 months.

        Required:

        Stable antiretroviral therapy for more than 4 weeks.
      
