TITLE:
A Study of Zidovudine (AZT) Used Alone or in Combination With Other Anti-HIV Drugs in HIV-Infected Patients With Little or No Previous Treatment

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Saquinavir

SUMMARY:

      To compare, in zidovudine (AZT)-naive patients, the safety, tolerance, and efficacy of
      saquinavir mesylate (Ro 31-8959) alone versus AZT alone versus AZT in combination with Ro
      31-8959, zalcitabine (ddC), or both. To compare various disease markers among the different
      regimens.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients are randomized to receive a minimum of 80 weeks of AZT alone, AZT plus ddC, AZT
      plus Ro 31-8959, or all three drugs.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Erythropoietin and G-CSF.

        Concurrent Treatment:

        Allowed:

          -  Local skin radiotherapy.

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV infection.

          -  CD4 count 50 - 350 cells/mm3.

          -  No prior antiretroviral therapy OR less than 16 weeks of prior AZT.

          -  No acute serious opportunistic infections requiring immediate treatment.

          -  No unexplained fever persisting for 14 days within 90 days prior to study entry.

          -  No significant unexplained diarrhea persisting for 14 days within 30 days prior to
             study entry.

          -  No visceral Kaposi's sarcoma or lymphoma currently requiring chemotherapy and/or
             radiotherapy.

          -  Life expectancy of at least 80 weeks.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Malabsorption.

          -  Severe chronic diarrhea.

          -  Inadequate oral intake (unable to eat one or more meals daily because of chronic
             nausea, emesis, or abdominal/oral-esophageal discomfort).

          -  Any grade 3 or worse toxicity.

          -  Inability to comply with study requirements.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Other investigational agents.

          -  Antineoplastic agents.

          -  Biologic response modifiers (including interferons).

          -  Foscarnet.

          -  Anti-HIV drugs other than the study drugs.

        Concurrent Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Radiotherapy (other than local skin radiotherapy).

        Patients with the following prior condition are excluded:

        History of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Acute therapy for opportunistic infection within 14 days prior to study entry.

          -  Prior HIV proteinase inhibitor.
      
