TITLE:
A Double-Blind Group Comparative Study To Evaluate the Long-Term Safety and Effectiveness of Two Different Doses of Aerosol Pentamidine in the Prophylaxis of Pneumocystis Carinii Pneumonia in AIDS Patients With Multiple Episodes of PCP

CONDITION:
Pneumonia, Pneumocystis Carinii

INTERVENTION:
Pentamidine isethionate

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate and compare the safety, tolerability, and effectiveness of long-term biweekly
      administration of 1 of 2 doses of aerosol pentamidine when used as a prophylactic agent in
      patients who have had multiple episodes of AIDS associated Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia
      (PCP).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Zidovudine (AZT).

        Patients must have:

          -  AIDS.

          -  Recovered from their most recent episode of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP).
             Patients must be at least 2 weeks status post therapy for acute PCP.

          -  Adequate pulmonary function (vital capacity = or > 65 percent of predicted; forced
             expiratory volume, 1 s = or > 55 percent of total FEV; and corrected pulmonary
             diffusion capacity > 50 percent of predicted).

          -  Patients must be free of acute medical problems.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  AIDS-defining opportunistic infection prior to entry such as toxoplasmosis and
             cryptococcosis.

          -  Pulmonary Kaposi's sarcoma.

          -  Asthma poorly controlled by medication.

          -  Receiving active therapy for tuberculosis.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Active therapy for tuberculosis.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Requiring ongoing active therapy for an opportunistic infection at time of study
             entry.

          -  AIDS-defining opportunistic infection prior to study entry such as toxoplasmosis and
             cryptococcosis.

          -  Pulmonary Kaposi's sarcoma.

          -  Unwilling to sign informed consent.

          -  Asthma poorly controlled by medication.

          -  Unwilling to cooperate with study procedures.

          -  Receiving active therapy for tuberculosis.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 30 days of study entry:

          -  Antiretrovirals (other than zidovudine (AZT)).

          -  Immunomodulating agents.

          -  Corticosteroids.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded within 7 days of study entry:

          -  Transfusion.

          -  Patient cannot be transfusion dependent (requiring blood transfusion more than once
             per month).

        Active substance abuse.
      
