TITLE:
The Safety and Effectiveness of Zidovudine Plus Acyclovir in Patients With Early HIV Infection

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Zidovudine

SUMMARY:

      This double-blind, placebo-controlled study is designed to determine the long-term safety
      and efficacy of concurrent oral Retrovir / Zovirax (AZT and ACV) therapy and oral AZT
      therapy alone, in the treatment of early symptomatic HIV infection. Efficacy will be
      evaluated by monitoring the incidence, severity, and time of development of opportunistic
      infections and other manifestations of advanced symptomatic HIV infection. The effects of
      the combination and single AZT therapy on immune function and viral replication will also be
      evaluated. Study participants will be monitored for evidence of toxicity or intolerance to
      concurrent AZT / ACV administration and AZT therapy alone.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  Early AIDS related complex (ARC).

          -  Willingness to be followed by the original study center for the duration of the trial
             (96 weeks).

          -  Ability to give informed consent.

          -  Patients may have associated lymphadenopathy (lymph nodes greater than or equal to 1
             cm in two noncontiguous areas).

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Concurrent neoplasms other than basal cell carcinoma of the skin or in situ carcinoma
             of the cervix.

          -  Fever > 102 degrees F persisting for more than 14 consecutive days or more than 15
             days in a 30-day interval, present at entry.

          -  Severe malabsorption (evidenced by persistent diarrhea of greater than 4 weeks
             duration with = or > 6 loose stools per day accompanied by significant weight loss).

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Acyclovir (ACV) therapy for chronic or recurrent herpes simplex.

        Patients with an AIDS-defining indicator disease as outlined by the CDC surveillance
        definition for AIDS which includes opportunistic infections or neoplasms, HIV neurologic
        disease, AIDS dementia or the "wasting syndrome" are excluded.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 4 weeks of study entry:

          -  Any other experimental therapy.

          -  Drugs which cause significant bone marrow suppression.

          -  Rifampin or rifampin derivatives.

          -  Cytolytic chemotherapy.

          -  Drugs which cause significant nephrotoxicity or hepatotoxicity.

          -  Immunomodulating agents, including steroids, interferon, Isoprinosine, immunoglobulin
             or interleukin 2.

          -  Excluded within 8 weeks of study entry:

          -  Antiretroviral agents.
      
