TITLE:
A Randomized, Multicenter, Double-Blind, Parallel-Group, Placebo-Controlled Trial of the Efficacy and Safety of Bovine Anti-Cryptosporidium Immunoglobulin (BACI) in the Treatment of Cryptosporidium Enteritis in AIDS Patients

CONDITION:
Cryptosporidiosis

INTERVENTION:
Cryptosporidium Immune Whey Protein Concentrate (Bovine)

SUMMARY:

      PRIMARY: To assess the effect of bovine anti-Cryptosporidium immunoglobulin (BACI) on the
      volume of diarrhea due to Cryptosporidium parvum in AIDS patients who have protracted
      Cryptosporidium enteritis.

      SECONDARY: To assess changes in stool consistency and frequency, body weight, and safety in
      this patient population.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Forty patients are randomized to receive either BACI or placebo (bovine colostrum from
      non-immunized cattle) for 1 week. The double-blind portion of the study will be followed by
      an open-label phase in which all 40 patients receive BACI for 1 week.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Antidiarrheal compounds (if dose remains stable).

          -  Zidovudine (AZT), dideoxyinosine (ddI), dideoxycytidine (ddC), or alternative HIV
             therapy (provided dose was stable for at least 4 weeks prior to study entry).

        Patients must have:

          -  AIDS.

          -  Cryptosporidium parvum enteritis.

          -  Chronic diarrhea.

          -  Life expectancy of at least 4 weeks.

          -  Ability to tolerate food by mouth.

          -  Ability to take the histamine H2-receptor antagonist famotidine (Pepcid).

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Antidiarrheal compounds (provided dose has remained stable in the 7 days prior to
             study entry).

          -  Zidovudine (AZT), dideoxyinosine (ddI), dideoxycytidine (ddC), or alternative HIV
             therapy (provided dose has remained stable for at least 4 weeks prior to study
             entry).

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Concurrent unresolved clinical infections with enteric pathogens other than C. parvum
             (e.g., rotavirus, Salmonella, Shigella, Campylobacter, Giardia, C. difficile toxin,
             Yersinia, amebiasis, MAI, CMV, Microsporida) as determined by history or routine
             microbiology screening.

          -  Other acute infections or concurrent immediately life-threatening medical crisis
             other than cryptosporidiosis.

          -  Grossly bloody diarrhea.

          -  Known allergy to milk or milk products (other than lactose intolerance).

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Other experimental therapy (e.g., macrolide antibiotics, paromomycin) within 30 days
             prior to study entry.
      
