TITLE:
A Study of 1592U89 in Combination With Protease Inhibitors in HIV-Infected Patients Who Have Never Taken Anti-HIV Drugs

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Indinavir sulfate

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to see if it is safe and effective to give 1592U89 plus certain
      protease inhibitors (PIs) to HIV-infected patients who never have been treated with anti-HIV
      drugs. This study also examines how the body processes these drugs when they are given
      together.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      In this Phase II, open-label study patients (16 per treatment group) are randomized to
      receive 1592U89 in combination with one of five protease inhibitors: indinavir, saquinavir,
      ritonavir, nelfinavir, or 141W94 for up to 48 weeks.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Local treatment for Kaposi's sarcoma.

          -  GM-CSF, G-CSF or erythropoietin.

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV-1 infection documented by a licensed HIV-1 antibody ELISA and confirmed by
             Western blot detection of HIV-1 antibody or a positive HIV-1 blood culture.

          -  CD4+ cell count >= 100 cells/mm3 within 14 days of study drug administration.

          -  HIV-1 RNA >= 5,000 copies/ml within 14 days of study drug administration.

          -  No active or ongoing AIDS-defining opportunistic infection or disease.

          -  Signed, informed consent from parent or legal guardian for patients less than 18
             years of age.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

        Local treatment for Kaposi's sarcoma.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  Malabsorption syndrome, or other gastrointestinal dysfunction, that might interfere
             with drug absorption or render the patient unable to take oral medication.

          -  Life-threatening infection or other serious medical condition that may compromise a
             patient's safety.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Other investigational agents. NOTE:

          -  Those available through Treatment IND or expanded access programs are evaluated
             individually.

          -  Chemotherapeutic agents for the initial 24 weeks of study (except local treatment for
             Kaposi's sarcoma).

          -  Agents with documented anti-HIV activity in vitro.

          -  Foscarnet.

          -  Immunomodulating agents such as systemic corticosteroids, interleukins, thalidomide,
             anti-cytokine agents or interferons.

          -  Antioxidants.

        Concurrent Treatment:

        Excluded:

        Radiation therapy within the first 24 weeks of study.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of clinically relevant pancreatitis or hepatitis within the last 6 months.

          -  Participation in an investigational HIV-1 vaccine trial.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Antiretroviral therapy, including reverse transcriptase inhibitor and protease
             inhibitor therapy.

          -  Cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents within 30 days of study drug administration.

          -  HIV-1 vaccine dose within the 3 months prior to study drug administration.

          -  Immunomodulating agents, such as systemic corticosteroids, interleukins or
             interferons within 30 days of study drug administration.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded:

        Radiation therapy within 30 days of study drug administration. Alcohol or illicit drug use
        that may interfere with patient compliance.
      
