TITLE:
A Phase I/II Safety and Immunogenicity Trial of UBI Microparticulate Monovalent (HIV-1 MN) Branched Peptide Vaccine in HIV-1 Seronegative Human Subjects

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
HIV-1 Peptide Vaccine, Microparticulate Monovalent

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of a combination of microparticulate monovalent
      HIV-1 MN synthetic branched peptide candidate vaccine for oral administration and monovalent
      HIV-1 MN synthetic branched peptide vaccine in alum for intramuscular administration in
      intermediate or higher risk HIV-negative volunteers.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Volunteers receive one of two schedules of vaccines or placebo administered at days 0, 28,
      and 168. Specifically, group 1 receives oral microparticulate monovalent vaccine over 3
      consecutive days on days 0, 1, and 2, and 28, 29, and 30, with the intramuscular monovalent
      vaccine given on day 168. Group 2 receives the intramuscular vaccine first, on day 0,
      followed by the oral form given on days 28, 29, and 30 and 168, 169, and 170. Volunteers are
      followed for 1 year.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Volunteers must have:

          -  Normal history and physical exam.

          -  HIV negativity.

          -  CD4 count >= 400 cells/mm3.

          -  Intermediate or high risk sexual behavior or a history of injection drug use within
             12 months prior to study entry.

          -  Normal urine dipstick with esterase and nitrite.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Volunteers with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Active tuberculosis.

          -  Occupational or other responsibilities that would prevent completion of study.

        Volunteers with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of immunodeficiency, chronic illness, autoimmune disease, or use of
             immunosuppressive medications.

          -  Psychiatric, medical, or substance abuse problems within the past 6 months that would
             affect ability to participate in study.

          -  History of anaphylaxis or other serious adverse reactions to vaccines.

          -  History of inflammatory gastrointestinal disease, celiac disease, or intestinal
             malignancy.

          -  Acute gastroenteritis or gastrointestinal surgery within the past 12 months.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Live or attenuated vaccine within the past 60 days.

          -  Illicit or experimental agents within the past 30 days. Intermediate or high risk
             sexual behavior. Injection drug use within the past 12 months.
      
