TITLE:
A Study of L-735,524 in HIV-Positive Children and Adolescents

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Indinavir sulfate

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the safety, tolerability, and plasma concentration profiles of indinavir sulfate
      ( MK-639; Crixivan ) in HIV-seropositive older children and adolescents. To compare the
      plasma concentration profile after the initial dose with data from a historical group of
      adults. To obtain preliminary data on antiviral activity of MK-639.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients receive MK-639 for 14 and one-third days. Repeat plasma samples are collected up to
      8 hours following the first and last dose. Urine samples are collected on days 1 and 5.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 10 Years to 18 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV positivity.

          -  No active opportunistic infection within the past 30 days, other than superficial
             candidiasis of the oral cavity or vagina.

          -  Body surface area at least 1.0 sqm.

          -  Consent of parent or guardian.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Aerosolized pentamidine.

          -  Topical antifungals.

          -  TMP / SMX.

          -  AZT.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Significant hepatic disease including HBsAg or hepatitis C positivity.

          -  Significant neurologic disease such as loss of intellectual ability, motor deficits,
             or seizure disorder.

          -  Significant cardiac disease including dysrhythmia or cardiomyopathy.

          -  Significant medical condition or laboratory abnormality that may pose additional risk
             to patient on study or confound the results.

          -  Has a social situation that may interfere with study participation.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Oral contraceptives.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of serious allergic drug reactions.

          -  History of significant cardiac disease.

          -  Participation on another clinical trial within the past 4 weeks.

          -  Donated blood within the past 4 weeks.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within the past 4 weeks:

          -  Hematopoietic growth factors.

        Excluded within the past 2 weeks:

          -  Antiretroviral agent other than zidovudine.

          -  Oral contraceptives.

          -  Prophylaxis for opportunistic infections, other than aerosolized pentamidine, topical
             antifungals, and TMP/SMX.

          -  Any other medication unless approved by Merck clinical monitor. Current illicit drug
             use.
      
