TITLE:
A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo Controlled Study of l-Leucovorin in Combination With Trimethoprim / Sulfamethoxazole in the Therapy of Pneumocystis Carinii Pneumonia in Patients With the Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome

CONDITION:
Pneumonia, Pneumocystis Carinii

INTERVENTION:
Trimethoprim

SUMMARY:

      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the effectiveness of l-leucovorin in
      preventing toxicity from high dose trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole (TMP / SMX) used as a
      therapy for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) in patients with AIDS.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have the following:

          -  Diagnosis of PCP.

          -  Fit the CDC definition of AIDS.

          -  Be receiving intravenous or oral trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole (Bactrim, Septra) in
             doses of = or > 15mg/kg/day of the trimethoprim component.

          -  Be receiving = or < 48 hours of trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole (TMP / SMX) prior to
             randomization.

          -  Must sign informed consent in accordance with FDA guidelines.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  Cannot take oral medications.

          -  Require continued administration of anticonvulsant agents such as phenytoin,
             phenobarbital or primidone.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Continued administration of anticonvulsant agents such as phenytoin, phenobarbital or
             primidone.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Cannot take oral medications.

          -  Require continued administration of anticonvulsant agents such as phenytoin,
             phenobarbital or primidone.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  > 48 hours of trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole prior to randomization.
      
