TITLE:
Safety and Effectiveness of Topotecan HCl to Treat HIV-Infected Patients With AIDS-Related Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML)

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Topotecan

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to see if it is safe and effective to give topotecan through a
      vein to treat HIV-infected patients with PML, an opportunistic (AIDS-related) infection
      caused by a virus that infects brain tissue and causes damage to the brain and the spinal
      cord.

      Topotecan fights HIV and the JC virus (the virus that causes PML) in laboratory experiments.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Topotecan, a cytotoxic DNA topoisomerase-I inhibitor that crosses the blood-brain barrier,
      inhibits the replication of JC virus (the virus that causes PML) in vitro, at concentrations
      that are not toxic to human cells. Topotecan also inhibits the replication of HIV-1 and the
      function of Tat (which upregulates the replication of JC virus).

      Patients are randomized to be treated immediately with topotecan or to have treatment
      delayed for 8 weeks. The dosing schedule for patients receiving immediate or delayed
      treatment is topotecan as a continuous 21-day intravenous infusion every 28 days. All
      patients must have received optimal, stable antiretroviral therapy for 3 weeks prior to
      entry and preferably will continue that therapy during the study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients may be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are HIV-positive.

          -  Have PML, including symptoms of PML.

          -  Are able to complete the study.

          -  Agree to have a catheter inserted in a vein.

          -  Have taken at least 3 weeks of a stable anti-HIV drug combination (unless they are
             unable to take anti-HIV drugs).

          -  Are at least 18 years old.

          -  Agree to use effective methods of birth control.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Patients will not be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Have a history of certain central nervous system (CNS) diseases.

          -  Have a history of certain psychiatric disorders, such as bipolar disorder or
             schizophrenia.

          -  Have syphilis that has not been treated.

          -  Have certain severe medical problems, including AIDS-related opportunistic infections
             (such as PCP) that require treatment.

          -  Have received chemotherapy in the past 30 days.

          -  Have ever received chemotherapy for PML.

          -  Are pregnant or breast-feeding.

          -  Are taking certain medications, including any other investigational drugs.
      
