TITLE:
The Safety and Effectiveness of Pentamidine in the Prevention of Pneumocystis Carinii Pneumonia (PCP) in Patients With AIDS Who Have Had PCP Before

CONDITION:
Pneumonia, Pneumocystis Carinii

INTERVENTION:
Pentamidine isethionate

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate and compare the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of biweekly administration of
      1 of 3 doses of aerosol pentamidine when used as a prophylactic agent in patients who have
      recovered from their first episode of AIDS-associated Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Zidovudine (AZT).

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Requiring ongoing active therapy for an opportunistic infection (O.I.) at time of
             entry or those with either of the following AIDS-defining O.I.'s prior to entry:

          -  Toxoplasmosis.

          -  Cryptococcosis.

          -  Transfusion dependent (requiring blood transfusion more than once per month). The
             last transfusion cannot have been given within 7 days of study entry.

          -  Pulmonary Kaposi's sarcoma (KS).

          -  Asthma requiring medication.

          -  Active therapy for tuberculosis.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Active therapy for tuberculosis.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Requiring ongoing active therapy for an opportunistic infection (O.I.) at time of
             entry or those with either of the following AIDS-defining O.I.'s prior to entry:

          -  Toxoplasmosis.

          -  Cryptococcosis.

          -  Transfusion dependent (requiring blood transfusion more than once per month). The
             last transfusion cannot have been given within 7 days of study entry.

          -  Pulmonary Kaposi's sarcoma (KS).

          -  Unwilling to sign informed consent.

          -  Cannot cooperate with study procedures.

          -  Asthma requiring medication.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 30 days of study entry:

          -  Antiretrovirals other than zidovudine (AZT).

          -  Immunomodulating agents.

          -  Corticosteroids.

        Patients must:

          -  Have AIDS and recovered from their first episode of cytologically or histologically
             proven Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP).

          -  Be at least 2 weeks and no more than 24 weeks status post therapy for acute PCP.

          -  Have positive antibody to HIV by any federally licensed ELISA test kit, or confirmed
             Western blot test.

          -  Have adequate pulmonary function (vital capacity = or > 80 percent of predicted;
             forced expiratory volume (FEV), 1 s = or > 65 percent of total FEV; and corrected
             pulmonary diffusion capacity > 60 percent of predicted).

          -  Free of acute medical problems.

        Active substance abuse.
      
