TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With HIV-Related Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma

CONDITION:
Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
cyclophosphamide

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy in treating
      patients with HIV-related non-Hodgkin's lymphoma that has relapsed or has not responded to
      chemotherapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate the response rate and duration of response to etoposide,
      mitoxantrone, and prednimustine in patients with relapsed HIV-associated non-Hodgkin's
      lymphoma (NHL). II. Evaluate the response rate and duration of response to cyclophosphamide,
      doxorubicin, and etoposide in patients with refractory HIV-associated NHL. III. Assess the
      toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients with relapsed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) receive oral etoposide and
      prednimustine on days 1-5 and intravenous mitoxantrone on day 1 every 3 weeks. Patients with
      refractory NHL receive cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and etoposide as a continuous infusion
      over 4 days every 4 weeks. All patients receive concomitant antiretroviral therapy with
      zidovudine or didanosine. G-CSF is given for hematologic support as indicated. All patients
      are evaluated for response after 2 courses of chemotherapy. Patients with a complete
      response (CR) receive 2 additional courses. Patients with a stable or partial response
      receive 2 additional courses and are re-evaluated; those with a CR receive 2 more courses,
      while those with a stable or partial response are treated off study at the physician's
      discretion. Patients with progressive disease are removed from study.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 15-20 patients will be treated on each regimen.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically proven non-Hodgkin's lymphoma at first
        presentation No documented CNS involvement (i.e., primary CNS or meningeal lymphoma)
        Positive serologic test for HIV antibodies required No opportunistic infection unless
        effectively treated Disease relapsed, refractory, or unresponsive to first-line
        chemotherapy No more than 1 prior combination chemotherapy regimen Chemotherapy consisted
        of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP) or a CHOP-like
        regimen, ACVBP, or other similar regimen

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: ECOG 0-3 Life expectancy: At
        least 1 month Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic: Bilirubin less than 5 times normal OR
        Transaminases less than 5 times normal Renal: Creatinine less than 2 mg/dL

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: See Disease Characteristics
      
