TITLE:
A Study of Two Anti-HIV Drug Combinations

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Lamivudine/Zidovudine

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to compare the safety and effectiveness of taking lamivudine
      (3TC) plus zidovudine (ZDV) plus a protease inhibitor (PI) with taking the 3TC/ZDV
      combination tablet (Combivir) plus a PI. This study also examines how well patients follow
      the dosing schedules for these drugs.

      Doctors believe that taking Combivir plus a PI may be as effective as taking 3TC plus ZDV
      plus a PI.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      It is hypothesized that a fixed-dose 3TC/ZDV tablet given bid in combination with a protease
      inhibitor is clinically equivalent in its effect on plasma HIV-1 RNA level to a conventional
      regimen of 3TC, ZDV, and a protease inhibitor.

      Patients are stratified according to their current protease inhibitor therapy and randomized
      to receive open-label therapy of 1 Combivir tablet bid (Arm II) or an equivalent dose of 3TC
      and ZDV (Arm I), plus their current protease inhibitor for 16 weeks.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV infection documented by a licensed antibody ELISA assay and confirmed by Western
             blot, positive HIV blood culture, positive HIV serum antigen, or plasma viremia.

          -  CD4+ cell count of at least 300 cells/mm3.

          -  HIV-1 RNA less than 10,000 copies/ml by Roche Amplicor PCR assay.

          -  CDC Category A or B Classification for HIV infection (no clinical diagnosis of AIDS).

          -  Compliance with dosing schedule and protocol evaluations.

        Prior Medication:

        Required:

          -  3TC at 150 mg bid, ZDV at 600 mg/day (200 mg tid or 300 mg bid), plus a marketed
             protease inhibitor (ritonavir, saquinavir, indinavir, or nelfinavir) at its
             recommended dose for at least 10 weeks.

        Allowed:

          -  Inhaled corticosteroids for the treatment of asthma.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  Malabsorption syndromes affecting drug absorption (e.g., Crohn's disease and chronic
             pancreatitis).

          -  Enrollment in other investigational protocols.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents.

          -  Nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors.

          -  Other investigational agents.

        Concurrent Treatment:

        Excluded:

        Radiation therapy.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Cytotoxic chemotherapeutic and immunomodulating agents such as systemic
             corticosteroids, IF-2, alpha-IFN, beta-IFN, or gamma-IFN (except for inhaled
             corticosteroids for the treatment of asthma) within 4 weeks of study entry.

          -  HIV immunotherapeutic vaccine within 3 months of study entry.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded:

        Radiation therapy within 4 weeks of study entry.
      
