TITLE:
Surgery and Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients With Early Cervical Cancer

CONDITION:
Cervical Cancer

INTERVENTION:
human papillomavirus 16 E7 peptide

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Vaccines made from human papillomavirus may make the body build an immune
      response to and kill cervical cancer cells. Combining vaccine therapy with surgery may be a
      more effective treatment for cervical cancer.

      PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving vaccine therapy together with
      surgery works in treating patients with early cervical cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Evaluate the systemic immunological response to the human papilloma virus vaccine
           (TA-HPV) expressing the proteins 16, 18, E6 and E7 examining the cytolytic T cell and
           the antibody responses in cervical cancer patients.

        -  Investigate further the safety and toxic effects of TA-HPV in these patients.

        -  Assess the proliferative capacity of T cells to the E6 and E7 proteins.

        -  Observe any influence of vaccination with TA-HPV on the disease free interval or
           patterns of recurrence in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, nonrandomized study.

      Patients receive 2 vaccinations of the human papilloma virus with proteins 16, 18, E6 and E7
      at least 4 weeks apart, with the first vaccination at least 2 weeks before surgery and the
      second 8 weeks after the first one, unless unacceptable toxicity occurs. Patients who
      require radiotherapy following surgery receive their second vaccination 4-8 weeks after the
      first vaccination.

      Twenty-eight patients are entered initially; if at least 2 patients show an immunologic
      response, 16 additional patients are entered.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years, then
      annually.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 44 patients will be entered over 1 year.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 19 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically proven untreated stage Ib or IIa cervical carcinoma, squamous or
             adenocarcinoma suitable for surgical excision

               -  No CNS metastases

          -  Circulating CD4+ lymphocyte count at least 400

          -  Proven absence of hepatitis B and C antibodies

          -  Previous exposure to vaccinia from smallpox vaccination, as well as no previous
             exposure, is allowed

          -  Reaction to 2 or more antigens on Pasteur Merieux CMI test required

          -  Ability to collaborate planned follow-up required

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  19 and over

        Performance status:

          -  WHO/ECOG no greater than 2

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 3 months

        Hematopoietic:

          -  WBC greater than 3,000 (3,000 x 10 to the ninth/L)

          -  Platelet count greater than 120,000 (120 x 10 to the ninth/L)

          -  No bleeding disorder

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin less than 1.5 times normal

          -  AST and ALT less than 1.5 times normal

          -  Prothrombin or partial thromboplastin time no greater than 2 times normal

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine less than 1.3 mg/dL (120 micromoles/L)

        Other:

          -  No ongoing infection

          -  No HIV antibody

          -  No serious medical or psychiatric illness

          -  No second malignancy within 5 years except for curatively treated basal cell skin
             cancer which required surgery, hormone therapy, immunotherapy or chemotherapy

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Adequate contraception required

          -  Patient or her household contacts must not have any of the following:

               -  Chronic steroid therapy

               -  Renal or other allograft

               -  Known immunodeficiency

               -  Eczema

               -  Children under 5 years old

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified
      
