TITLE:
A Study to Evaluate the Use of Stavudine (d4T) to Treat AIDS Dementia Complex

CONDITION:
AIDS Dementia Complex

INTERVENTION:
Stavudine

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to see if adding stavudine (d4T) to anti-HIV drug regimens
      (with or without zidovudine, ZDV) can improve symptoms of AIDS Dementia Complex (ADC,
      problems involving the brain or spinal cord) in HIV-positive patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      In this open-label, multicenter, multinational study, ZDV is replaced with d4T in
      ZDV-containing regimens, or d4T is added to non-ZDV-containing regimens in 20 patients
      experiencing ADC. Patients are defined as having failed treatment if they progress by one
      ADC stage on the MSK (Memorial Sloan Kettering) rating scale on study (i.e., from Stage 1 to
      2 or Stage 2 to 3). Patients are evaluated on a weekly basis until the dementia
      deterioration is confirmed to be caused by HIV-1. The effect of d4T-containing regimens is
      assessed for the following parameters: neurological status, survival, AIDS-defining
      conditions, CSF (cerebrospinal fluid) and plasma viral load, CSF and blood immunological
      markers, blood CD4 cell counts, and viral resistance. This study also assesses the
      pharmacokinetics of d4T in the CSF and in the blood.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        You may be eligible for this study if you:

          -  Are HIV-positive.

          -  Are at least 13 years old (need consent if under 18).

          -  Have AIDS Dementia Complex.

          -  Have been on a stable anti-HIV drug regimen for at least 8 weeks prior to study
             entry.

          -  Agree to use effective methods of birth control during the study.

          -  Are available for at least 16 weeks of study.

        Exclusion Criteria

        You will not be eligible for this study if you:

          -  Have ever taken d4T.

          -  Have a neurological (brain/spinal cord) disease, such as chronic seizures or head
             injury, or certain other conditions that would interfere with your ability to
             complete the study.

          -  Are pregnant or breast-feeding.

          -  Abuse alcohol or drugs.

          -  Have peripheral neuropathy or a newly diagnosed AIDS-defining infection that requires
             treatment at the time of study enrollment.

          -  Have received certain medications.

          -  Cannot take medications by mouth.

          -  Have severe diarrhea for at least 7 days in a row within 30 days prior to study
             entry.
      
