TITLE:
A Study of Ritonavir/Indinavir Combination in HIV-Infected Patients

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Indinavir sulfate

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to determine how many HIV-infected patients continue taking
      ritonavir/indinavir combination after having taken indinavir three times a day as part of
      their anti-HIV drug therapy. This study also examines the safety and effectiveness of the
      ritonavir/indinavir combination.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 12 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV infection.

          -  CD4 cell count greater than 100 cells/microliter.

          -  HIV RNA levels greater than 400 copies/microliter using the Roche Ultrasensitive
             assay.

          -  No acute illness.

          -  Consent of parent or guardian if less than legal age.

          -  No prior enrollment in this study.

          -  All entry criteria for this study met within 15 days prior to enrollment.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with any of the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

        Any condition that in the opinion of the investigator may obscure proper observation of
        the safety or activity of the treatment regimens used in this study.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Concurrent non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors as part of the
             antiretroviral regimen.

          -  Any of the following medications with ritonavir:

          -  midazolam, clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam, triazolam, zolpidem,
             quinidine, amiodarone, encainide, flecainide, propafenone, bepridil, terfenadine,
             astemizole, cisapride, bupropion, clozapine, rifabutin, meperidine, propoxyphene,
             piroxicam, pimozide, dihydroergotamine, and ergotamine.

          -  Any of the following medications with indinavir:

          -  terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, triazolam, midazolam. No requirement for rifampin
             or ketoconazole.

          -  Any concurrent treatment with other protease inhibitors.

          -  Other concurrent medication (including over-the-counter medicine or alcohol) without
             the knowledge and permission of the primary investigator.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of significant drug hypersensitivity.

          -  Psychiatric illness that precludes compliance with the protocol.

          -  Receipt of investigational drug within 30 days prior to administration of study drug.

          -  History of acute or chronic pancreatitis.

          -  Anticipation of poor patient compliance with protocol.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

        Prior treatment with ritonavir.

        Risk Behavior:

        Excluded:

        History of active substance abuse (i.e., recreational drugs or alcohol).

        Included:

        - Indinavir 800 mg three times a day plus unspecified nucleosides for at least 3 months.
      
