TITLE:
A Multi-Center, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Study of the Efficacy and Safety of Adefovir Dipivoxil When Added to Standard Antiretroviral Therapy for the Treatment of HIV-Infected Patients With CD4 Cell Counts >= 200/mm3

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Adefovir dipivoxil

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the anti-HIV activity, safety, and tolerance of adefovir dipivoxil ( bis-POM
      PMEA ) in combination with standard antiretroviral therapy for 48 weeks.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients are randomized to receive either adefovir dipivoxil or placebo daily for 24 weeks,
      after which all patients will receive open-label drug for an additional 24 weeks. Study drug
      is administered in combination with a current antiretroviral regimen for the entire 48
      weeks. Patients are followed every 4 weeks during the first 24 weeks of study, then every 8
      weeks during the last 24 weeks.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV infection with HIV RNA titer >= 2500 copies/ml (2.5 KEq/ml) plasma.

          -  CD4 count >= 200 cells/mm3.

          -  No new AIDS-defining event within the past 2 months.

          -  Life expectancy at least 1 year.

          -  Consent of parent or guardian if less than 18 years old.

          -  Tolerated antiretroviral therapy for the past 2 months.

        NOTE:

          -  Kaposi's sarcoma is permitted provided patient has not received systemic therapy
             within the past month.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Active, serious infections other than HIV that require parenteral antibiotic or
             antiviral therapy.

          -  Gastrointestinal malabsorption syndrome or chronic nausea or vomiting that would
             preclude oral medication.

          -  Malignancy other than Kaposi's sarcoma or basal cell carcinoma.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Immunomodulating agents such as systemic corticosteroids, IL-2, or interferons.

          -  Isoniazid.

          -  Rifampin.

          -  Investigational agents (unless approved by sponsor).

          -  Systemic chemotherapeutic agents.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Parenteral antibiotic or antiviral therapy for another active, serious infection
             within the past 2 weeks.

          -  Immunomodulating agents such as systemic corticosteroids, IL-2, or interferons within
             the past month.

          -  Systemic therapy for KS within the past month.

        Required:

          -  Antiretroviral regimen other than study drug.

        Required:

          -  Antiretroviral therapy for at least the past 2 months. Current alcohol or substance
             abuse that would interfere with compliance.
      
