TITLE:
An Evaluation of Pentoxifylline in HIV-Positive Persons With Symptomatic HIV Infection and a Karnofsky Score > 40 Percent and < 100 Percent

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Pentoxifylline

SUMMARY:

      PRIMARY: To determine whether pentoxifylline changes the self-reported measures of quality
      of life status, using measures of scores from double-blinded drug withdrawal and drug
      restart periods.

      SECONDARY: To measure the changes in monthly CD4 counts, fasting serum triglyceride levels,
      and weight; to assess the safety of pentoxifylline in HIV-infected persons.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Stable antiretroviral therapy.

          -  Maintenance medication for opportunistic infection.

        Patients must have:

        HIV positivity.

        NOTE:

          -  Patients on an antiretroviral must have received it for at least 2 months and have no
             currently perceived need to change or add to the regimen for the next 3 months.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Antiviral therapy (provided patient has been on such therapy for at least 2 months at
             study entry and dose is stable).

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms and conditions are excluded:

          -  Evidence of active opportunistic infection or malignancy requiring high-dose systemic
             chemotherapy (only patients who are 30 days from a diagnosis of an opportunistic
             infection and on appropriate maintenance medication are allowed).

          -  Known significant intolerance or hypersensitivity to theophylline, theobromine
             (chocolate), or caffeine, for reasons other than dyspepsia.

          -  Inability to swallow tablets (gastric feeding tubes are allowed).

          -  Active bleeding disorder or major bleeding source, including peptic ulcer or
             gastritis.

          -  Any symptoms suggestive of concurrent illness that are not attributable to overall
             impairment by HIV or are not diagnosable based on the available evidence.

          -  Not willing to comply with visit schedule and study procedures.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Concurrent use of the anticoagulant warfarin (Coumadin) and heparin.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Treatment with biologic response modifiers (e.g., interferon, interleukin) within 14
             days prior to study entry.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Major surgery within 30 days of study entry.
      
