TITLE:
A Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Study With Open-Label Follow-Up To Determine the Safety and Efficacy of r-HuEPO in AIDS and Advanced ARC Patients With Anemia

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Epoetin alfa

SUMMARY:

      To determine the safety and efficacy of r-HuEPO administration to patients with AIDS or
      advanced AIDS related complex (ARC) and anemia secondary to their disease.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Criteria:

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  History of any primary hematologic disease.

          -  HIV disease related dementia.

          -  Uncontrolled hypertension (diastolic blood pressure > 100 mmHg).

          -  Presence of concomitant iron deficiency.

          -  Anemia attributable to factors other than HIV disease or zidovudine (AZT) therapy.

          -  Acute opportunistic infection.

          -  History of seizures.

          -  Clinically significant disease / dysfunction of the pulmonary, cardiovascular,
             endocrine, neurologic, gastrointestinal, or genitourinary systems not attributable to
             underlying HIV disease.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Zidovudine (AZT) therapy during the double-blind phase of study.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  History of any primary hematologic disease.

          -  Clinically significant disease / dysfunction of the pulmonary, cardiovascular,
             endocrine, neurologic, gastrointestinal, or genitourinary systems not attributable to
             underlying HIV disease.

          -  HIV disease related dementia.

          -  Uncontrolled hypertension (diastolic blood pressure > 100 mmHg).

          -  Presence of concomitant iron deficiency.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 30 days of study entry:

          -  Experimental drug or experimental device.

          -  Cytotoxic chemotherapy.

          -  Excluded within 2 months of study entry:

          -  Androgen therapy.

          -  Zidovudine (AZT) therapy and during the double-blind phase.

        Clinical diagnosis with AIDS or AIDS related complex (ARC) and related anemia.

          -  Clinical diagnosis of AIDS or ARC.

          -  Clinically stable for 1 month preceding study entry.

          -  Patients should preferably be transfusion dependent.

        Substance abuse.
      
