TITLE:
SP-303T Applied to the Skin of Patients With Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV) Infection and AIDS Who Have Not Had Success With Acyclovir

CONDITION:
Herpes Simplex

INTERVENTION:
Crofelemer

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the safety and tolerance of topically applied SP-303T in AIDS patients. To
      observe the effect of this drug on herpes simplex virus lesions in patients who have failed
      to heal in response to oral or intravenous acyclovir therapy.

      The lack of alternative treatments for herpes simplex virus infection in patients with AIDS
      and the development of resistance to acyclovir for patients requiring repeated treatment
      presents a therapeutic dilemma for physicians. SP-303T has good in vitro activity against
      resistant strains and offers a convenient and inexpensive means of drug administration in
      comparison to the use of intravenous medication.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The lack of alternative treatments for herpes simplex virus infection in patients with AIDS
      and the development of resistance to acyclovir for patients requiring repeated treatment
      presents a therapeutic dilemma for physicians. SP-303T has good in vitro activity against
      resistant strains and offers a convenient and inexpensive means of drug administration in
      comparison to the use of intravenous medication.

      Patients receive 14 days (and up to 42 days) of treatment with topically applied SP-303T.
      SP-303T is applied directly onto herpes simplex virus lesions three times daily in a
      quantity sufficient to thinly cover the entire lesion, which may then be covered with an
      appropriate dressing, if needed. At the end of the treatment period, patients enter a
      follow-up period of 2 weeks.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV-1 infection.

          -  AIDS.

          -  Chronic mucocutaneous herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection, with one or more lesions
             unresponsive to oral acyclovir therapy.

          -  No uncontrolled infections other than HSV.

          -  Sufficient mental status to understand the purpose of the study and to comply with
             study requirements.

          -  Sufficient general health to be an outpatient and to come to the clinic for required
             follow-up visits.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Known hypersensitivity or allergy to citrus fruits, black currant berries, and rose
             hips.

          -  Any disease condition that, in the opinion of the investigator, would interfere with
             evaluation of the study drug, affect patient compliance, or place the patient at
             increased risk.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Other unapproved investigational new drugs.

          -  Concurrent other therapy for herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection or medications with
             known activity against HSV.

        Required:

          -  A minimum of 10 days of prior oral acyclovir (at least 1 g daily) or 10 days of prior
             intravenous acyclovir (15 mg/kg daily).
      
