TITLE:
Safety and Effectiveness of Adding PMPA Prodrug to an Anti-HIV Drug Combination to Treat HIV-Infected Patients

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to see if it is safe and effective to add PMPA Prodrug (a new
      anti-HIV drug) to an anti-HIV drug combination taken by patients who have taken anti-HIV
      drugs in the past. Genetic response will be studied.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Prior to study entry patients are stratified according to HIV-1 RNA level, CD4 cell count,
      and number of antiretroviral drugs. PMPA Prodrug or placebo is added to current
      antiretroviral regimens, and is administered in one of three dosing regimens. Patients
      randomized to receive placebo are eligible to receive open-label PMPA Prodrug for the
      remainder of the 48-week study period after at least 24 weeks post randomization.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        You may be eligible for this study if you:

          -  Are HIV-positive.

          -  Have an HIV count of 400 - 50,000 copies/ml.

          -  Are expected to live for at least 1 year.

          -  Have been taking the same anti-HIV drug combination (made up of no more than 3
             anti-HIV drugs) for at least 8 weeks prior to study entry.

          -  Are at least 18 years old.

          -  Agree to use effective methods of birth control during the study.

        Exclusion Criteria

        You will not be eligible for this study if you:

          -  Have taken medications for certain infections within 15 days prior to study entry.

          -  Have a history of cancer, except Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) or skin cancer.

          -  Develop a new AIDS-related condition within 30 days of study entry.

          -  Have certain serious medical conditions, including severe nausea, vomiting, or other
             stomach problems that make you unable to take medications by mouth.

          -  Have received a vaccine within 30 days prior to study entry.

          -  Have taken certain medications, including those that may affect your kidneys.

          -  Abuse alcohol or drugs.

          -  Are pregnant.
      
