TITLE:
Dideoxycytidine ( Ro 24-2027 ). A Treatment Protocol for the Use of Dideoxycytidine ( ddC ) in Patients With AIDS or Advanced ARC Who Cannot Be Maintained on Zidovudine ( AZT ) Therapy.

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Zalcitabine

SUMMARY:

      To provide zalcitabine ( ddC ) for patients with AIDS or Advanced ARC in whom zidovudine (
      AZT ) is contraindicated, or who have failed treatment with or are intolerant to AZT and to
      demonstrate that ddC monotherapy is safe, and tolerable in this patient population.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 12 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Aerosolized Pentamidine or Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole prophylaxis against
             Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia is recommended.

          -  Dapsone is permitted but discouraged.

          -  Drugs that could cause other serious toxicity when coadministered with study
             medication is allowed for treatment of an acute intercurrent illness or opportunistic
             infection at the investigator's discretion.

          -  Any medication that has the potential to cause peripheral neuropathy should be
             avoided; patients should consult their physicians for specific drugs.

          -  Isoniazid is permitted if there is no evidence of peripheral neuropathy at entry and
             the patient is taking pyridoxine = or > 50 mg/day.

          -  Metronidazole is permitted only with a study drug interruption.

          -  Patients on amphotericin, pyrimethamine, sulfadiazine, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole,
             ganciclovir, intravenous pentamidine, intravenous acyclovir = or > 1000 mg/day orally
             or other bone marrow or renal toxic drugs may not tolerate concomitant ddC. If these
             drugs are given concomitantly with ddC, patients should have frequent (weekly)
             laboratory assessments, as appropriate.

          -  Drugs that are nephrotoxic or have the potential to cause peripheral neuropathy might
             be expected to cause increased toxicity when co-administered with ddC.

          -  The following experimental medications are allowed if, in the judgement of the
             investigator, no serious additive toxicities are anticipated and the experimental
             drug is necessary for optimal patient management:

          -  Ampligen, azithromycin, BW 566C80, bovine colostrum, clarithromycin, diclazuril,
             foscarnet, oral ganciclovir, GM-CSF, G-CSF, hypericin, IL-2, interferon-beta,
             interferon-gamma, itraconazole, liposomal amphotericin, liposomal gentamicin,
             nimodipine, PEG-IL2 (polyethylene glycosylated IL-2), roxithromycin, spiramycin,
             trimetrexate.

        Patients must have the following:

          -  AIDS or Advanced ARC.

          -  Patients eligible to enter this protocol must fall into one of the following three
             categories:

          -  AZT treatment failure or AZT intolerance or AZT ineligibility or Rollover Patients
             Under 18 years of age must have the consent of a parent or guardian.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Any history of peripheral neuropathy due to any cause, even if peripheral neuropathy
             was not the reason for discontinuation of other anti-HIV therapy.

          -  Any finding suggestive of peripheral neuropathy found at baseline neurological exam.
             If a patient has an isolated finding of an absent achilles reflex he may be entered
             if no signs or symptoms and no other findings are suggestive of peripheral
             neuropathy.

          -  Concomitant treatment with excluded medications. Excluded medications include any
             other experimental drugs (including ddI), drugs with known nephrotoxic or hepatotoxic
             potential, and drugs likely to cause peripheral neuropathy. Any = or > Grade 3
             laboratory or clinical abnormality or any severe abnormality not listed requires
             permission from the medical monitor to be entered into this study..

          -  Unwillingness or deemed unable to sign informed consent.
      
