TITLE:
A Study to Evaluate the Effect of Cimetidine on CD4 Lymphocyte Counts in HIV Infection

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Cimetidine

SUMMARY:

      To determine the change in CD4 count after 4 and 8 weeks in HIV-infected patients treated
      with cimetidine compared to placebo. To observe time-associated trends at weeks 4, 8, 12,
      and 16 in the change of CD4 counts for patients taking cimetidine for the full 16 weeks. To
      establish a safety record for cimetidine use in HIV-positive patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  All FDA-approved medications, antiretrovirals, and PCP prophylaxis drugs, with the
             exception of warfarin (Coumadin).

          -  Other self-prescribed medications available either over the counter or through
             buyer's clubs.

        Patients must have:

        HIV positivity.

        NOTE:

          -  Patients on an antiviral or immunomodulating drug must have received it for at least
             2 months and have no intention to make clinical or therapeutic changes in the first 8
             weeks (such as adding a new agent or discontinuing effective viral suppressive
             therapy) that may interfere with the study.

        NOTE:

          -  Patients who become pregnant after enrollment will be permitted to continue on study
             drug but must sign an additional informed consent indicating their awareness of the
             issues in taking a drug with limited safety data during pregnancy.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Antiviral and immunomodulating drugs, provided patient has been on such therapy for
             at least 2 months prior to study entry.

        Exclusion Criteria:

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Known intolerance or hypersensitivity to cimetidine.

          -  Evidence of active opportunistic infection or malignancy requiring high-dose systemic
             chemotherapy.

          -  Any symptoms suggestive of concurrent illness that are not attributable to overall
             impairment by HIV or are not diagnosable based on the available evidence.

          -  Inability to swallow tablets (gastric feeding tubes are allowed).

          -  Not willing to comply with visit schedule and study procedures.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Warfarin (Coumadin).

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 4 weeks prior to study entry:

          -  cimetidine (Tagamet), ranitidine (Zantac), famotidine (Pepcid), and nizatidine
             (Axid).
      
