TITLE:
A Phase I Study of Recombinant Human CD4 Immunoglobulin G (rCD4-lgG) in Patients With HIV-Associated Immune Thrombocytopenic Purpura

CONDITION:
Immune Thrombocytopenic Purpura ( ITP )

INTERVENTION:
CD4-IgG

SUMMARY:

      To test the effectiveness of recombinant human CD4 Immunoglobulin G (CD4-IgG) in the
      treatment of HIV-associated immune thrombocytopenic purpura in patients with all levels of
      HIV infection.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Dapsone at a constant dose level and only as a prophylaxis for Pneumocystis carinii
             pneumonia (PCP).

          -  Zidovudine (AZT) at a constant dose for the 12 weeks of treatment, except if
             AZT-related toxicity is observed.

        Patients must have the following:

          -  HIV seropositive (asymptomatic, AIDS-related complex, or AIDS).

          -  HIV-associated immune thrombocytopenic purpura.

          -  The ability to sign a written informed consent form, which must be obtained prior to
             treatment.

          -  A willingness to abstain from all other experimental therapy for HIV infection during
             the entire study period.

          -  Patients currently on zidovudine are not excluded. However, the zidovudine dose level
             must remain constant for 4 weeks prior to entry and for the 12 weeks of treatment,
             except if zidovudine related toxicity is observed.

          -  A life expectancy of at least 3 months.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Dapsone at a constant dose for more than 2 weeks prior to study entry.

          -  Zidovudine at a constant dose for 4 weeks prior to study entry.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions and symptoms are excluded:

          -  Active serious opportunistic infection (excluding positive block cultures of
             Mycobacterium avium complex or Cytomegalovirus).

          -  Malignancies other than Kaposi's sarcoma.

          -  Tumor-associated edema.

          -  Visceral Kaposi's sarcoma.

          -  Significant neurologic, cardiac, or liver disease.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Ganciclovir (DHPG). Pyrimethamine. Clindamycin. Sulfadiazine. Folinic acid.
             Prednisone. Intravenous gamma globulin. Intravenous acyclovir. Interferon. Systemic
             corticosteroids. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Known
             immunomodulatory agents. Dideoxycytosine. Dideoxyinosine. Nucleoside analogs (with
             the exception of zidovudine or topical acyclovir). Any experimental therapy.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Active serious opportunistic infection (excluding positive block cultures of
             Mycobacterium avium complex or Cytomegalovirus).

          -  Malignancies other than Kaposi's sarcoma.

          -  Kaposi's sarcoma requiring therapy.

          -  Tumor-associated edema.

          -  Visceral Kaposi's sarcoma.

          -  Significant neurologic, cardiac, or liver disease.

          -  Conditions requiring excluded concomitant medications.

          -  Herpes virus infection requiring intravenous acyclovir.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded for a minimum of 4 weeks prior to study entry:

          -  Chemotherapy.

          -  Immunomodulatory agents.

          -  Any experimental therapy.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded for a minimum of 4 weeks prior to study entry:

          -  Radiation therapy.

          -  Any experimental therapy.
      
