TITLE:
A Randomized, Double-Blind Study of the Efficacy and Safety of Oral Ganciclovir for the Prevention of CMV Disease in People Infected With the Human Immunodeficiency Virus

CONDITION:
Cytomegalovirus Infections

INTERVENTION:
Ganciclovir

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the efficacy of oral ganciclovir in preventing progression to cytomegalovirus
      (CMV) disease (e.g., CMV retinitis, gastrointestinal CMV disease) in CMV-infected people
      with HIV infection and CD4 lymphocyte counts <= 100 cells/mm3. To evaluate the efficacy of
      this drug in reducing morbidity associated with coinfection by both CMV and HIV.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Topical or ophthalmic nucleoside analogs.

        Patients must have:

          -  Confirmation of HIV infection.

          -  Documented CMV infection.

          -  No past or present CMV disease (e.g., retinitis, colitis, esophagitis).

          -  Adequate visualization of the retina of both eyes by ophthalmologist.

          -  CD4 count <= 50 cells/mm3 (in patients WITHOUT a history of an AIDS-defining
             opportunistic infection or chronic gynecologic infection) OR CD4 count <= 100
             cells/mm3 (in patients WITH a history of an AIDS-defining opportunistic infection or
             chronic gynecologic infection).

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Presence of gastrointestinal disease or symptoms not controlled with medications
             (e.g., persistent nausea, abdominal pain or persistent diarrhea within the past 4
             weeks that is not controllable with medication).

          -  Inability to comply with protocol.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  The following nucleoside analogs:

          -  IV ganciclovir, IV acyclovir for more than 2 weeks total duration, oral acyclovir at
             doses > 1000 mg/day, vidarabine, amantadine hydrochloride, cytarabine, idoxuridine.

          -  FIAU, FIAC, foscarnet, CMV hyperimmune globulin, IV immune globulin, CMV monoclonal
             antibody, HPMPC.

          -  Imipenem-cilastatin (Primaxin).

        Patients with the following prior condition are excluded:

        History of hypersensitivity to acyclovir.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within the past 60 days:

        Ganciclovir, foscarnet, FIAC, FIAU, CMV hyperimmune globulin, CMV monoclonal antibody, or
        HPMPC.
      
