TITLE:
Antibiotic Therapy and Antacids in Patients With Malt Lymphoma of the Stomach

CONDITION:
Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
Amoxicillin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Antibiotic therapy and antacids are used to treat Helicobacter pylori infection
      of the stomach. These treatments may also have an effect on gastric MALT lymphoma of the
      stomach.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of antibiotic therapy with amoxicillin,
      clarithromycin, tetracycline, and metronidazole plus antacids in patients with MALT lymphoma
      of the stomach.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate the response of gastric lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid
      tissue (MALT) to treatment for Helicobacter pylori infection with antibiotics (amoxicillin,
      clarithromycin, tetracycline, and metronidazole) and with gastric acid inhibitors
      (omeprazole and bismuth subsalicylate). II. Correlate response with endoscopic tumor grade
      and clinical and pathological parameters. III. Assess the incidence of H. pylori infection
      in patients with gastric MALT lymphoma.

      OUTLINE: All patients are treated on Regimen A; those receiving tetracycline on Regimen A
      are switched to Regimen B for their second course; those receiving amoxicillin for their
      first course receive tetracycline for their second course. Regimen A: Antibiotic Therapy
      with Gastric Acid Inhibition. Amoxicillin (or Tetracycline in penicillin-allergic patients);
      Clarithromycin; with Bismuth Subsalicylate; Omeprazole. Regimen B: Antibiotic Therapy with
      Gastric Acid Inhibition. Tetracycline; Metronidazole, METRO, NSC-50364; with Bismuth
      Subsalicylate; Omeprazole.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 75 patients will be entered over 3 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Suspected gastric lymphoma or documented gastric lymphoma of
        mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) that is stage IE Gastric MALT lymphoma with
        perigastric lymph nodes identified on endoscopic ultrasound eligible at MDACC and Houston
        VA Medical Center only No indication for expeditious treatment with chemotherapy,
        radiotherapy, or surgery based on clinical condition, underlying illness, or tumor stage

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 to 80 Performance status: Not specified Hematopoietic:
        Not specified Hepatic: Not specified Renal: Not specified Other: No contraindication to
        endoscopy or biopsy No pregnant or nursing women Adequate contraception required of
        fertile patients

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: No concurrent chemotherapy or radiotherapy
      
