TITLE:
A Comparison of Two Dose Levels of Didanosine Used in Combination With Stavudine in HIV-Infected Patients

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Stavudine

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of taking didanosine (ddI) once a
      day plus stavudine (d4T) twice a day with taking ddI twice a day plus d4T twice a day. This
      study also examines the safety of giving ddI with d4T in the short-term.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients are randomized to receive ddI given either qd or bid in combination with d4T given
      bid (no doses specified).
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  Documented HIV infection.

          -  CD4 cell count of at least 100 cells/mm3.

          -  Plasma HIV RNA count of 10,000 copies/ml or more within 14 days prior to study entry.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions and symptoms are excluded:

          -  Presence of a newly diagnosed AIDS-defining opportunistic infection requiring acute
             therapy at the time of enrollment.

          -  Bilateral peripheral neuropathy or signs and symptoms of bilateral peripheral
             neuropathy greater than or equal to Grade 2 at the time of screening.

          -  Inability to tolerate oral medication.

          -  Any other clinical condition that would preclude compliance with dosing requirements.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of acute or chronic pancreatitis.

          -  Intractable diarrhea (6 or more loose stools/day for more than 7 consecutive days)
             within 30 days prior to study entry.

          -  Proven or suspected acute hepatitis within 30 days prior to study entry.

             1. Potent neurotoxic drugs, such as vincristine and thalidomide.

          -  Other anti-HIV therapy.

             1. Prophylaxis for pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) is strongly recommended for
             patients with CD4 cell counts less than or equal to 200/mm3 or who have had a prior
             episode of PCP.

          -  Immunizations recommended by ACIP for routine practice.

          -  Erythropoietin and G-CSF are allowed if myelosuppression emerges on study.

             1. Any antiretroviral therapy.

          -  Agents with significant systemic myelosuppressive, neurotoxic, pancreatotoxic,
             hepatotoxic, or cytotoxic potential within 3 months of study entry.

             1. Any prior antiretroviral therapy.

          -  Agents with significant systemic myelosuppressive, neurotoxic, pancreatotoxic,
             hepatotoxic, or cytotoxic potential within 3 months of study entry.

        Active alcohol or substance abuse that would prevent adequate compliance or would increase
        the risk of pancreatitis.
      
