TITLE:
An Open Study of the Effect of Itraconazole Oral Solution for the Treatment of Fluconazole Refractory Oropharyngeal Candidiasis in HIV-Positive Subjects.

CONDITION:
Candidiasis, Oral

INTERVENTION:
Itraconazole

SUMMARY:

      To assess the efficacy and safety of itraconazole oral solution in HIV-seropositive patients
      with oropharyngeal candidiasis that is refractory to fluconazole.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients receive itraconazole oral solution twice daily. Per 08/15/94 amendment, patients
      with complete resolution of oropharyngeal candidiasis lesions upon completion of treatment
      are eligible for maintenance treatment on protocol FDA 236C. Patients who decline
      maintenance are followed for 6 weeks. Patients who relapse during follow-up are re-treated
      for 14-28 days; if lesions clear, patients may enter the maintenance protocol.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV antibody seropositivity or diagnosis of AIDS.

          -  Confirmed oropharyngeal candidiasis.

          -  Failed fluconazole treatment within the past 14 days.

          -  Life expectancy of at least 3 months.

          -  NO symptoms of esophageal candidiasis (e.g., dysphagia) unless endoscopic exam of
             esophagus was performed and fungal esophagitis was not present.

          -  NO prior disseminated candidiasis.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Underlying clinical condition that precludes study completion or places the patient
             at significant risk.

          -  Considered unreliable about following physician's directives.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Investigational drugs (approved expanded access drugs are permitted).

          -  Rifampin.

          -  Rifabutin.

          -  Phenobarbital.

          -  Phenytoin.

          -  Carbamazepine.

          -  Terfenadine.

          -  Astemizole.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of hypersensitivity to imidazole or azole compounds.

          -  Clinical evidence of significant hepatic disease within the past 2 months.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Investigational drugs within 1 month prior to study entry (approved expanded access
             drugs are permitted).
      
