TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Lymphoma

CONDITION:
Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
Bleomycin Sulfate (BLM)

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining chemotherapy with peripheral stem cell
      transplantation may allow the doctor to give higher doses of chemotherapy drugs and kill
      more cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of two regimens of
      combination chemotherapy in treating patients who have intermediate-grade or immunoblastic
      lymphoma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of early intensification vs alternating triple chemotherapy in
           patients with intermediate-grade or immunoblastic lymphoma with poor prognostic
           features.

        -  Compare, in a prospective manner, the cost/benefit ratio of these regimens in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the value of monitoring minimal residual disease detection via in vitro
           culture methods and polymerase chain reaction analysis of peripheral stem cell
           apheresis products and by longitudinal monitoring of blood and bone marrow samples in
           these patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to tumor score (3 or
      4 vs 5 or 6).

      During the first course of induction, patients receive IDSHAP comprising idarubicin (IDA)
      and cisplatin IV continuously on days 1-4, cytarabine (ARA-C) IV over 2 hours on day 5, and
      methylprednisolone (MePRDL) IV over 15 minutes on days 1-5. During the second course of
      induction, patients receive MBIDCOS comprising vincristine, bleomycin, and cyclophosphamide
      IV over 15 minutes on day 1, IDA IV continuously and MePRDL IV over 15 minutes on days 1-3,
      methotrexate (MTX) IV over 2 hours on day 10, and oral leucovorin calcium every 6 hours on
      days 11 and 12. Each course lasts 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with stable or responding disease after induction are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

      Arm I

        -  Patients receive the following 3 courses of early intensification.

             -  First course: Patients receive ifosfamide (IFF) IV continuously and etoposide
                (VP-16) IV over 2 hours every 12 hours on days 1-3. Filgrastim (G-CSF) is
                administered subcutaneously (SC) beginning on day 5 and continuing until blood
                counts recover and then autologous peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are
                harvested, selected for CD34 positive cells, and purged in vitro. If more than 5%
                of the WBC contains lymphoma cells after induction, then 2 courses of IFF and
                VP-16 are administered before PBSC harvest.

             -  Second course: Patients receive IFF IV continuously on days 1-3, mitoxantrone
                (DHAD) IV on day 1, and G-CSF SC as in the first course.

             -  Third course: Patients receive carmustine IV over 1 hour on day -6, ARA-C and
                VP-16 IV every 12 hours on days -5 to -2, and melphalan IV on day -1. PBSC are
                reinfused on day 0. G-CSF is administered SC beginning on day 0 and continuing
                until blood counts recover. Each course lasts 3 weeks in the absence of disease
                progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Arm II

        -  Patients receive IDSHAP during courses 2 and 5, MBIDCOS during courses 3 and 6, and IFF
           and VP-16 IV over 1 hour on days 1-3 and DHAD IV over 15 minutes on day 1 during
           courses 1, 4, and 7. Each course lasts 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with residual disease after completion of arm I or II treatment undergo
      radiotherapy to areas of bulk disease if feasible. Patients on both arms with meningeal
      involvement receive ARA-C intrathecally (IT) alternated with MTX every other day until 1
      week after clearing of CNS disease and then 2 IT injections during every course of
      chemotherapy thereafter. Patients with divergent histology who achieve complete response
      after completion of arm I or II treatment receive interferon alfa 3 times a week for 1 year.

      Patients are followed at 1 month, every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1 year, and
      then annually for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 136 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 15 Years to 59 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of previously untreated intermediate-grade or immunoblastic lymphoma

               -  Tumor score of 3 or greater, defined by the presence of 3 or more of the
                  following criteria :

                    -  Ann Arbor stage III or IV disease

                    -  B symptoms (fever, sweats, and weight loss greater than 10%)

                    -  At least 1 tumor mass greater than 7 cm or mediastinal mass visible on
                       plain chest x-ray

                    -  Beta-2 microglobulin at least 3.0

                    -  Lactic dehydrogenase at least 1.1 times the upper limit of normal

          -  T- and B-cell lymphomas allowed if intermediate grade or immunoblastic

          -  Divergent histologies, including bone marrow involvement, allowed

          -  CNS involvement allowed NOTE: A new classification scheme for adult non-Hodgkin's
             lymphoma has been adopted by PDQ. The terminology of "indolent" or "aggressive"
             lymphoma will replace the former terminology of "low", "intermediate", or "high"
             grade lymphoma. However, this protocol uses the former terminology.

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  15 to 59

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin less than 2.0 mg/dL (unless elevation due to lymphoma)

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 mg/dL (unless elevation due to lymphoma)

        Cardiovascular:

          -  LVEF greater than 50% by echocardiogram if over age 45

          -  No congestive heart failure, angina, history of myocardial infarction, or arrhythmia
             unless cleared by principal investigator after cardiology consultation

        Pulmonary:

          -  No history of chronic obstructive or restrictive lung disease

          -  Pulmonary consultation required for smokers or patients with questionable lung
             function

        Other:

          -  HIV negative

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No prior malignancy with poor prognosis (less than 90% probability of surviving for 5
             years)

          -  No geographic, economic, emotional, or social condition that would preclude study

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  No prior biologic therapy

        Chemotherapy

          -  No prior chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy

          -  No prior endocrine therapy

        Radiotherapy

          -  No prior radiotherapy

        Surgery

          -  Not specified
      
