TITLE:
The Safety and Effectiveness of r-HuEPO in Patients With AIDS and Anemia Caused by AIDS and Treatment With AZT

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Epoetin alfa

SUMMARY:

      To determine the safety and efficacy of erythropoietin administered subcutaneously to AIDS
      patients with anemia secondary to their disease and/or concomitant zidovudine (AZT) therapy.
      Efficacy will be assessed by correction of anemia and decrease in transfusion requirements.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Criteria:

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  History of any primary hematologic disease.

          -  Clinically significant disease / dysfunction of the pulmonary, cardiovascular,
             endocrine, neurologic, gastrointestinal, or genitourinary systems not attributable to
             underlying AIDS.

          -  AIDS-related dementia.

          -  Uncontrolled hypertension (diastolic blood pressure > 100 mmHg).

          -  Presence of concomitant iron deficiency.

          -  Anemia attributable to factors other than AIDS or zidovudine (AZT) therapy.

          -  Acute opportunistic infection.

          -  History of seizures.

        Patients with clinically significant disease / dysfunction of the pulmonary,
        cardiovascular, endocrine, neurologic, gastrointestinal, or genitourinary systems not
        attributable to underlying AIDS are excluded.

          -  Patients who have previously participated in any other r-HuEPO clinical study are
             excluded.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 30 days of study entry:

          -  Experimental drug or experimental device.

          -  Cytotoxic chemotherapy.

          -  Excluded within 2 months of study entry:

          -  Androgen therapy.

        Clinical diagnosis of AIDS related anemia.

          -  Clinical diagnosis of AIDS.

          -  Clinically stable for 1 month preceding study entry.

          -  Maintenance dose of zidovudine (AZT) of at least 400 mg daily.

        Substance abuse.
      
