TITLE:
A Study of Mitoguazone Dihydrochloride in Patients With AIDS-Related Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma

CONDITION:
Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin

INTERVENTION:
Mitoguazone

SUMMARY:

      To estimate the response rate, response duration, clinical benefit, and toxicity of
      mitoguazone dihydrochloride (MGBG) in patients with AIDS-related refractory or relapsing
      non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients receive infusions of MGBG on days 1 and 8 and every 2 weeks thereafter. It is
      suggested that a lumbar puncture be performed to evaluate for leptomeningeal disease.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV positivity by ELISA confirmed by Western blot.

          -  AIDS-related NHL that is refractory or relapsed.

          -  Life expectancy of at least 12 weeks.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms and conditions are excluded:

          -  Concomitant malignancy OTHER THAN curatively treated carcinoma in situ of the cervix;
             basal or squamous cell carcinoma of the skin; or non-active, non-visceral Kaposi's
             sarcoma not requiring active chemotherapy.

          -  Active uncontrolled bacterial infection, viral infection (other than herpes simplex),
             or fungal infection (other than oropharyngeal candidiasis) that requires treatment
             within 2 weeks of study entry.

          -  Significant cardiovascular disease.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Hormonal therapy (except medications given for muscle wasting, such as testosterone
             or Megace).

          -  Other chemotherapy.

          -  Investigational anti-cancer drugs.

        Concurrent Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Concomitant radiation to sites other than CNS.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

        Prior malignancy OTHER THAN curatively treated carcinoma in situ of the cervix; basal or
        squamous cell carcinoma of the skin; or non-active, non-visceral Kaposi's sarcoma not
        requiring active chemotherapy.

        Recommended:

          -  Prophylaxis for PCP and oral candidiasis.

        Required in patients with leptomeningeal disease:

          -  Intrathecal methotrexate or cytarabine (Ara-C).

          -  Leucovorin.

        Required in patients with leptomeningeal disease:

        Cranial radiation to a helmet field.
      
