TITLE:
A Study of the Safety and Efficacy of Chronically Administered MDL 28,574A in the Treatment of HIV-Infected Patients

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Celgosivir hydrochloride

SUMMARY:

      To characterize the safety and efficacy of fixed doses of MDL 28,574A administered alone and
      in combination with zidovudine ( AZT ) in patients with asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic
      HIV infection. To examine the demographic effects on population pharmacokinetics and
      pharmacodynamics of MDL 28,574A alone and in combination with AZT.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV infection.

          -  Asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic.

          -  CD4 count 100 - 300 cells/mm3.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Prior antiretroviral agents for up to 6 months per agent.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following condition are excluded:

        Unable or unwilling to comply with study procedures.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Chemoprophylactic therapy for mycobacterial infection.

          -  Any nonstudy prescription medications without approval of investigator.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of grade 3 or 4 toxicity to <= 600 mg/day AZT.

          -  History of intolerance to lactose.

          -  Chronic diarrhea within 6 months prior to study entry.

          -  Unexplained intermittent or chronic fever, defined as temperature >= 38.5 C for any 7
             days within the 30 days prior to study entry.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Antiretroviral therapy within 2 weeks prior to study entry.

          -  Prior HIV vaccines.

          -  Biological response modifiers within 30 days prior to study entry.

          -  Prior foscarnet.

          -  Any investigational drug with a washout < 5 half-lives prior to study entry.

          -  Any medications known to alter renal, hepatic, or hematologic / immunologic function
             (such as barbiturates, phenothiazines, cimetidine, immunomodulators, etc.) within 14
             days prior to study entry.

        Recent history of alcohol and/or drug abuse.
      
