TITLE:
Non-Comparative Study of Fluconazole in Patients With Serious Mycoses and Who Cannot Be Treated With Conventional Antifungal Therapy

CONDITION:
Candidiasis

INTERVENTION:
Fluconazole

SUMMARY:

      The primary purpose of this protocol is to provide fluconazole for the treatment of
      individual patients who require therapy for serious or life-threatening systemic fungal
      infection, who have failed on conventional antifungal therapy or have had unacceptable
      reactions to conventional antifungal therapy, and who are ineligible for other established
      fluconazole clinical trial protocols.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        A patient will be excluded if he/she has previously had an unacceptable adverse effect due
        to fluconazole.

        A patient will be excluded if he/she has previously had an unacceptable adverse effect due
        to fluconazole.

        AMENDED:

          -  900207 Open only to unapproved indications and/or age ranges.

          -  Original design:

          -  Patients with clinically established serious or life-threatening systemic fungal
             disease will be considered if conventional fungal therapy is not an acceptable
             alternative. Unacceptability of conventional therapy is defined as:

          -  Failure of conventional therapy to control or eradicate infection after appropriate
             trial(s) of generally accepted regimen(s).

          -  Serious and unacceptable untoward reaction(s) to conventional antifungal therapy.

          -  OR A major contraindication to the use of conventional antifungal therapy.

          -  The patient must be ineligible or have no access to other established fluconazole
             investigational protocols. The final judgment of patient acceptability for inclusion
             lies with the Pfizer Clinical Monitor.
      
