TITLE:
A Study to Compare the Efficacy and Safety of Valacyclovir Hydrochloride ( 256U87 ) Versus Acyclovir in the Treatment of Recurrent Anogenital Herpes Infections in HIV Infected Patients

CONDITION:
Herpes Simplex

INTERVENTION:
Valacyclovir hydrochloride

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the safety and efficacy of oral valacyclovir hydrochloride (256U87) vs.
      acyclovir in the treatment of recurrent anogenital herpes in HIV-infected patients (CD4
      greater than or equal to 100).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Efficacy variables include the length of the episode, the time to lesion healing, the
      duration and severity of pain/discomfort, the duration of viral shedding, the proportion of
      patients with aborted episodes, the proportion of patients requiring extended therapy.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have the following:

          -  HIV-infected individual (CD4 = or > 100) with a history of recurrent anogenital
             herpes.

          -  Signed the consent form or present a signed parental consent form if below 18 years.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  Hepatic impairments as evidenced by a three-fold increase from the upper limit of
             normal in alanine or aspartate transaminase. Impairment of renal function as
             evidenced by any elevation above the upper limit of normal for serum creatinine.
             History of hypersensitivity to acyclovir. Malabsorption or vomiting that would, in
             the investigators opinion, potentially limit the retention and absorption of oral
             therapy.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Hepatic impairment as evidenced by a three-fold increase from the upper limit of
             normal in alanine or aspartate transaminase. Impairment of renal function as
             evidenced by any elevation above the upper limit of normal for serum creatinine.

          -  History of hypersensitivity to acyclovir. Malabsorption or vomiting that would, in
             the investigator's opinion, potentially limit the retention and absorption of oral
             therapy.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Systemic antiherpes or immunomodulatory therapy within 30 days prior to entry.
      
