TITLE:
Vinorelbine and Paclitaxel Plus Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Advanced Cancer Arising in the Pelvis

CONDITION:
Bladder Cancer

INTERVENTION:
paclitaxel

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining radiation therapy with chemotherapy with may kill
      more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of chemotherapy with vinorelbine and
      paclitaxel plus radiation therapy in treating patients with advanced cancer arising in the
      pelvis.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Assess the toxic effects of vinorelbine given on a weekly schedule combined
      with standard whole pelvic radiation therapy. II. Determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD)
      of vinorelbine given on a weekly schedule combined with standard whole pelvic radiation
      therapy. III. Access the toxic effects of paclitaxel given weekly in combination with the
      regimen determined to be the MTD of vinorelbine. IV. Determine the MTD of paclitaxel given
      weekly in combination with the regimen determined to be the MTD of vinorelbine.

      OUTLINE: Part I: Vinorelbine IV bolus is administered over 8-10 minutes on day 1 prior to
      radiation therapy. Whole pelvic radiation treatment is given on days 1-5 followed by 2 days
      of rest. The treatment volume encompasses all suspected pelvic disease with a minimum of 1
      cm margin. Cycles repeat weekly. Dose of vinorelbine is escalated in cohorts of at least 3
      patients until maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. Part II: Paclitaxel is infused
      over 1 hour immediately following vinorelbine at the MTD, as determined in part I. Dose of
      paclitaxel is escalated in cohorts of at least 3 patients until the MTD is determined. At
      least 6 patients are treated at the MTD for both parts I and II of the study. Patients are
      followed for late and chronic toxicities.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Projected accrual is 12 patients per year for approximately 3 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed locally advanced carcinoma of the
        uterine cervix, vagina, or bladder or other pelvic malignancy for which whole pelvic
        radiation therapy is planned Metastatic disease is permitted

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: Over 18 Performance status: CALGB 0-2 Hematopoietic: WBC at
        least 3,500/mm3 Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin within normal
        limits Renal: Creatinine no greater than 2.5 mg/dL Cardiovascular: No unstable angina or
        myocardial infarction in previous 6 months Other: Not pregnant No significant concomitant
        illness, uncontrolled infection, or cirrhosis

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: No prior
        chemotherapy Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: No prior whole pelvic
        radiation therapy Surgery: Not specified
      
