TITLE:
Tamoxifen, Ovarian Ablation, and/or Chemotherapy in Treating Women With Stage I, Stage II, or Stage IIIA Breast Cancer

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
CMF regimen

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Estrogen can stimulate the growth of breast cancer cells. Hormone therapy using
      tamoxifen may fight breast cancer by blocking the uptake of estrogen. Combination
      chemotherapy uses different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or
      die. Combining hormone therapy with chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of tamoxifen with or
      without chemotherapy and/or ovarian ablation in treating women with stage I, stage II, or
      stage IIIA breast cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Estimate overall and relapse-free survival of women with early-stage breast cancer
           receiving adjuvant tamoxifen with or without adjuvant chemotherapy and/or ovarian
           suppression.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified by participating
      institution and choice of randomization option.

      Postmenopausal women are randomized to the first or second groups.

      Randomization for pre- and perimenopausal women is based on the clinician's judgement of
      appropriate adjuvant therapy (chemotherapy and/or ovarian suppression). Patients may be
      randomized as follows: among all four groups; for chemotherapy alone (first versus second
      group); for ovarian suppression alone (first versus third group); for ovarian suppression
      with nonrandomized assignment to chemotherapy (second versus forth group); for chemotherapy
      with nonrandomized assignment to ovarian suppression (second versus fourth group).

        -  First group: Patients receive tamoxifen by mouth every day for 5 years.

        -  Second group: Patients receive tamoxifen plus cyclophosphamide, methotrexate,
           fluorouracil (CMF) or doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide (AC). CMF is given every month for 6
           courses; AC is given every 3 weeks for 4 courses.

        -  Third group: Patients receive tamoxifen plus ovarian suppression by oophorectomy,
           radiation castration, or leuprolide or goserelin.

        -  Fourth group: Patients receive tamoxifen plus ovarian suppression plus chemotherapy
           with CMF or AC.

      Patients are followed for overall and relapse-free survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 6,000 women (4,000 premenopausal, 2,000 postmenopausal)
      will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed invasive carcinoma of the breast for which adjuvant systemic
             therapy is appropriate

               -  Stage I, II, or IIIA

               -  Pathologically positive or negative nodes

               -  Any size primary tumor

          -  No edema, peau d'orange, infiltration of the skin, or direct extension to the chest
             wall

          -  Hormone receptor status:

               -  Not specified

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  Not specified

        Sex:

          -  Female

        Menopausal status:

          -  Pre-, peri-, or postmenopausal

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No prior malignancy except:

               -  Basal cell carcinoma

               -  Carcinoma in situ of the cervix

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Chemotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No prior systemic treatment for breast cancer
      
