TITLE:
Bone Marrow Transplant Plus Cyclophosphamide and Total-Body Irradiation in Treating Patients With Hematologic Cancer

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
anti-thymocyte globulin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage cancer
      cells. Combining chemotherapy and radiation therapy together with bone marrow transplant may
      allow the doctor to give higher doses of chemotherapy drugs and kill more cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving bone marrow transplant from an
      unrelated donor together with cyclophosphamide and total-body irradiation works in treating
      patients with hematologic cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Study the curative potential of high-dose cyclophosphamide and total-body irradiation
           followed by rescue with bone marrow from volunteer HLA-matched donors in patients with
           a variety of hematologic malignancies and bone marrow failure states.

        -  Study the toxic effects associated with matched unrelated bone marrow transplantation
           in this patient population.

        -  Participate in collaborative research studies with the National Marrow Donor Program.

      OUTLINE: All patients receive myeloablative therapy with high-dose cyclophosphamide and
      total body irradiation over 4 days; patients with severe aplastic anemia also receive
      antithymocyte globulin. Patients then undergo allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.
      Filgrastim (G-CSF) is given after transplant to accelerate engraftment. Sargramostim
      (GM-CSF) may be given in case of graft failure.

      All patients receive graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD) prophylaxis with tacrolimus,
      methotrexate, and gamma globulin. Established GVHD is treated with corticosteroids and, as
      necessary, antithymocyte globulin.

      Patients are followed at 100 days, 6 months, and 1 year after transplant, then annually
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 10 patients per year will be accrued for this study over 5
      years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 17 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  One of the following hematologic malignancies/disorders:

               -  Acute lymphoblastic leukemia

                    -  In second or subsequent complete remission (CR)

                    -  In first CR with high-risk features (e.g., Philadelphia
                       chromosome-positive)

                    -  In first relapse and failed conventional salvage therapy

               -  Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML)

                    -  In second or subsequent CR

                    -  In early first relapse

                    -  In full first relapse and failed conventional salvage therapy

                    -  In first CR with high-risk features, e.g., trisomy 8 or FAB 6/7

                         -  Standard-risk AML offered conventional-dose consolidation chemotherapy
                            or autologous bone marrow transplantation

               -  Chronic myelogenous leukemia in chronic, accelerated, or second chronic phase

                    -  No blast crisis

               -  Severe aplastic anemia that has failed at least 1 course of immunosuppressive
                  therapy

               -  Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria with high-risk features (e.g., disseminated
                  intravascular coagulation, thrombotic events)

               -  Myelodysplastic syndrome, i.e.:

                    -  Symptomatic, transfusion-dependent refractory anemia with excess blasts

                    -  (RAEB) or RAEB in transformation

               -  Secondary leukemia in CR following conventional-dose induction chemotherapy

          -  Unrelated marrow donor available who is 8 out of 10-, 9 out of 10-, or 10 out of
             10-antigen serologically HLA-matched at A, B, C, DRb, and DQB loci by molecular
             typing

          -  No CNS malignancy

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  17 to 60

        Performance status:

          -  Karnofsky 70-100%

        Life expectancy:

          -  No reduction due to other serious illness

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin less than 3 mg/dL

          -  AST/ALT no greater than twice normal

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2.0 mg/dL

          -  Creatinine clearance greater than 60 mL/min

        Cardiovascular:

          -  Left ventricular ejection fraction at least 45%

          -  No severe hypertension

        Pulmonary:

          -  DLCO, FEV_1, and FVC at least 50%

        Other:

          -  HIV negative

          -  No active infection at time of transplant

          -  No advanced diabetes

          -  No significant neurologic deficit

          -  No active drug or substance abuse

          -  No emotional disorders

          -  Able to participate in frequent medical care for at least 1-2 years

          -  Willing to comply with National Marrow Donor Program policies

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Chemotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Surgery

          -  Not specified
      
