TITLE:
Chemotherapy Plus Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Head and Neck Cancer

CONDITION:
Esophageal Cancer

INTERVENTION:
fluorouracil

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor
      cells. Combining radiation therapy with chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of chemotherapy plus radiation therapy in
      treating patients with head and neck cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the locoregional control rates, time to failure, need for salvage surgery and
           overall survival of patients with intermediate stage cancer of the oral cavity,
           pharynx, larynx, paranasal sinuses, and cervical esophagus.

        -  Measure the impact of concomitant Hyper-FHX radiotherapy on organ preservation, organ
           function and quality of life parameters.

        -  Identify possible prognostic factors for toxic effects and response by performing
           pharmacologic monitoring.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive concomitant chemoradiotherapy with curative intent. Patients who
      have microscopic or macroscopic residual disease 6 weeks after completion of
      chemoradiotherapy will receive a surgical salvage procedure.

      The first cycle of chemotherapy will begin with PO doses of hydroxyurea every 12 hours on
      days 0-5. Fluorouracil is given IV on days 0-4. Radiation therapy BID is given on days 1-6.
      Cycles repeat every 14 days for a total of 5 cycles.

      The disease will be reevaluated 4-6 weeks after completion of all treatment, every 3 months
      for 1 year, then yearly.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed diagnosis of carcinoma

          -  Stage II-III (T2, T3, N0 or T1-3, N1) carcinoma of head and neck, including: oral
             cavity, pharynx, larynx, paranasal sinuses, and cervical esophagus

          -  No N2 or N3

          -  Measurable disease is not required

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  Not specified

        Performance status:

          -  Zubrod 0-3

        Life expectancy:

          -  Anticipated survival is 3-4 years (median)

        Hematopoietic:

          -  WBC count at least 3.5/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Cardiovascular:

          -  Not specified

        Pulmonary:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No infection or severe medical illness

          -  Not pregnant

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No prior radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  No prior surgery
      
