TITLE:
A Study on the Safety and Effectiveness of Twice-Daily Nelfinavir Plus Twice-Daily Indinavir Plus Efavirenz in HIV-Positive Patients Who Have Never Taken Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs) or Protease Inhibitors

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Indinavir sulfate

SUMMARY:

      Indinavir is usually taken three times a day. The purpose of this study is to see if it is
      safe and effective to take indinavir only twice a day plus nelfinavir (also taken twice a
      day) and efavirenz (taken once a day).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients receive a treatment regimen consisting of nelfinavir, indinavir, and efavirenz for
      48 weeks. During the study, patients are evaluated for changes from baseline in plasma HIV-1
      RNA levels and lymphocyte subsets and for development of adverse events and toxicities.
      After Week 48, patients with documented virologic response are eligible to continue
      receiving study treatments and to attend scheduled follow-up visits. Patients who experience
      virologic failure are discontinued from the study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        You may be eligible for this study if you:

          -  Are HIV-positive.

          -  Are at least 13 years old (consent of parent or guardian required if under 18).

          -  Have a viral load of at least 10,000 copies/ml within 30 days of study entry.

          -  Agree to use a barrier method of birth control, such as condoms, during the study.

        Exclusion Criteria

        You will not be eligible for this study if you:

          -  Have hepatitis.

          -  Have any other serious medical condition besides HIV infection.

          -  Are allergic to indinavir, nelfinavir, or efavirenz.

          -  Have ever taken NNRTIs or protease inhibitors.

          -  Have had chemotherapy or radiation therapy within 30 days of study entry. (Local
             radiation therapy is allowed.)

          -  Have taken certain other medications that might affect your immune system such as
             interleukin-2, interferon, or a vaccine within 30 days of study entry.

          -  Are enrolled or plan to enroll in another anti-HIV drug study during this study.

          -  Are pregnant or breast-feeding.

          -  Abuse alcohol or drugs.
      
