TITLE:
A Study of LXR015-1 in HIV-Infected Patients

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
LXR015-1

SUMMARY:

      To determine and compare the safety and tolerability of 3 doses of LXR015-1 in HIV-infected
      patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients will be randomized to 1 of 3 doses of oral LXR015-1 for 28 days and patients will
      be monitored for adverse events for the duration of the study. Patients will continue to be
      monitored for least 4 weeks after completion of the dosing.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  Documented HIV infection.

          -  CD4 cell count less than 200 cells/mm3.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

        Acute therapy for opportunistic infections or serious AIDS defining infections must be
        completed at least 28 days before study entry.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Patients that are unable to take adequate oral intake (i.e. unable to eat 1 or more
             meals a day because of chronic nausea, emesis, or abdominal/oral/esophageal
             discomfort).

          -  Patients who have severe diarrhea as defined as >= 7 stools per day, or acute
             diarrhea due to a treatable cause.

        NOTE:

          -  If the patient has Cryptosporidia, Mycobacterium avium, or Cytomegalovirus that is
             unresponsive to treatment and has less than 7 stools per day, the patient may
             participate in this study.

          -  Patients who have any severe or life-threatening laboratory or clinical abnormality,
             or are not expected to live for 8 weeks.

          -  Patients who have an active opportunistic infection, including tuberculosis,
             cryptococcosis, or other serious AIDS defining infections requiring immediate
             treatment. Acute therapy must be completed at least 28 days before study entry.

          -  Patients with unexplained elevated temperature >= 38.5 degrees C that persists for 7
             days or more within 14 days before study entry.

          -  Patients with malignancy other than squamous or basal carcinomas of the skin.
             Patients with visceral Kaposi's sarcoma or lymphoma requiring systemic chemotherapy
             or radiation treatment will be excluded. Patients with Kaposi's of the skin or mucous
             membranes may enroll in this study.

          -  Patients, who in the judgment of the investigator are unable to comply with the
             protocol.

        Concurrent Treatment:

        Excluded:

        Radiation therapy.

        Patients with the following prior condition are excluded:

        A known history of hypersensitivity reaction to soy protein or soy lecithin. NOTE:

          -  This hypersensitivity is identified through medical history, not skin testing.

        Excluded:

          -  Systemic chemotherapy.

          -  Acute therapy for opportunistic infections or other serious AIDS defining infections.

          -  Intravenous rehydration as treatment for diarrhea.

        Required:

        Patient must be taking a stable regimen (about 8 weeks) of anti-viral, anti-opportunistic
        infection and/or anti-diarrheal (if patient has diarrhea) medications.
      
