TITLE:
A Third-Party Blinded, Placebo Controlled Comparative Study of AS-101 Administered Intravenously in HIV Positive Patients With Advanced Disease

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Zidovudine

SUMMARY:

      To compare the effect of AS-101 to that of placebo on clinical efficacy and immunologic
      function in HIV positive patients with advanced disease. To compare the effect of AS-101 to
      that of placebo on occurrence of disease progression in HIV positive patients with advanced
      disease as defined by: (1) development of new diagnostically confirmed major opportunistic
      infection(s); or (2) development of AIDS-related dementia. To compare the effect of
      zidovudine (AZT) plus AS-101 versus AZT alone (placebo arm) on clinical efficacy and
      immunologic function in patients who require anti-viral therapy due to disease progression.
      Garlic capsules will be given to all study participants to mask the obvious garlic odor of
      AS-101.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to 70 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Standard therapy including acyclovir or ganciclovir for infections that develop
             during the study period. (Prophylactic acyclovir is not permitted.) Standard therapy
             for persistent infections may continue.

          -  Immunomodulators or specific therapy for malignancies (including Kaposi's sarcoma)
             allowed only with permission of Wyeth-Ayerst medical monitor.

          -  Zidovudine (AZT) may be added only if there is disease progression and after the
             patient has been in the study for a minimum of eight weeks.

          -  Garlic capsules will be given to all study participants to mask side effects of
             AS-101.

          -  Required:

          -  Accepted standard prophylaxis for patients with prior Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia
             (PCP).

        Patients must have the following:

          -  Diagnosis of AIDS or AIDS-related complex (ARC).

          -  Life expectancy > 6 months.

          -  Provide written informed consent.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  Evidence of severe liver dysfunction (serum albumin < 2.5 g/dl, prothrombin time > 15
             seconds or SGOT or SGPT > 3 x upper limits of normal), gastrointestinal, renal,
             respiratory, endocrine, hematologic, cardiovascular system abnormalities or
             psychiatric disorders which would prevent compliance with the protocol.

          -  Evidence of AIDS related dementia.

          -  Presence of disseminated Kaposi's sarcoma defined as any visceral lesions or > 20
             cutaneous lesions; or Kaposi's sarcoma without at least one other AIDS defining
             characteristic.

          -  Presence of any lymphoma.

          -  Active opportunistic infection currently requiring treatment unless the infection has
             stabilized and continuing treatment is only required to prevent relapse (e.g., CNS
             toxoplasmosis or resolving tuberculosis).

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Prophylactic acyclovir.

          -  Immunomodulators or specific therapy for malignancies (including Kaposi's sarcoma)
             allowed only with permission of Wyeth-Ayerst medical monitor.

          -  Zidovudine (AZT) may be added only if there is disease progression and after the
             patient has been in the study for a minimum of eight weeks.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Evidence of severe organ dysfunction as defined in Exclusion complications or other
             specified disease conditions.

          -  Unlikely or unable to comply with the requirements of the protocol.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 8 weeks of study entry:

          -  Any immune stimulation agents such as BCG vaccine, interferons, or other immune
             modulators within 8 weeks.

          -  Any immunosuppressive agent within 8 weeks.

          -  Excluded within 12 weeks of study entry:

          -  Zidovudine (AZT).
      
