TITLE:
A Phase I/II Study of Recombinant Human GM-CSF in Patients With AIDS Virus Infection and Leukopenia

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Sargramostim

SUMMARY:

      To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and toxicity of sargramostim (recombinant
      granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor; GM-CSF) given by continuous intravenous
      infusion (CIV) in patients with leukopenia in association with AIDS virus infection. In
      addition, single dose and steady state pharmacokinetics will also be determined.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  Met the CDC criteria for the diagnosis of AIDS.

          -  Total peripheral blood leukocyte count = or < 3000 cells/mm3 measured on at least two
             occasions separated by a minimum of one week.

          -  Must have or have recovered from one or more opportunistic infection.

          -  Serum antibody to HTLV-III/LAV with or without viremia.

          -  Anticipated survival of at least 6 months.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  AIDS related complex (ARC).

          -  History of malignancy other than Kaposi's sarcoma (KS).

          -  Excessive diarrhea (more than 5 liquid or non-liquid stools per day).

          -  Currently hospitalized or hospitalized within the last 4 weeks for the treatment of
             opportunistic infections.

          -  Presence of renal dysfunction.

          -  Other evidence of primary hematologic or infectious disorders unrelated to AIDS virus
             infection.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  AIDS related complex (ARC).

          -  History of malignancy other than Kaposi's sarcoma (KS).

          -  Excessive diarrhea (more than 5 liquid or non-liquid stools per day).

          -  Currently hospitalized or hospitalized within the last 4 weeks for the treatment of
             an opportunistic infection.

          -  Dementia or altered mental status that would prohibit the giving and understanding of
             informed consent.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Any marrow suppressive medications such as trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole combination
             (TMP-PurposeX) or Fansidar.

          -  Excluded within 6 weeks of study entry:

          -  Any investigational drug.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded within 6 weeks of study entry:

          -  Systemic cytotoxic chemotherapy or irradiation.

        Risk Behavior:

        Excluded within 3 months of study entry:

          -  Regular, excessive use of alcohol, hallucinogens or agents which are addicting.
      
