TITLE:
Piritrexim in Treating Patients With Advanced Cancer of the Urinary Tract

CONDITION:
Bladder Cancer

INTERVENTION:
piritrexim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of piritrexim in treating patients with
      advanced cancer of the urinary tract that has not responded to previous treatment.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate the antineoplastic activity of piritrexim and its effect on the
      survival of patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma previously treated with systemic
      cytotoxic chemotherapy. II. Evaluate the toxicity of piritrexim in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive piritrexim by mouth 3 times daily, 5 days a week, for 3 weeks
      followed by 1 week of rest. Patients with responding or stable disease continue treatment
      every 4 weeks until unacceptable toxicity or progression intervenes.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 40 patients will be entered over 5-6 months if at least 1
      response is observed in the first 14 evaluable patients.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed transitional cell carcinoma, squamous
        cell, or adenocarcinoma of the renal pelvis, ureter, bladder, or urethra Progressing
        regional or metastatic disease after one prior systemic or intra- arterial chemotherapy
        regimen Bidimensionally measurable disease, e. g.: Pulmonary nodules Palpable lymph nodes
        Cutaneous or subcutaneous nodules Mediastinal tumor or hepatic metastases if clearly
        measurable on CT No prior radiotherapy to indicator lesion unless documented progression
        since completion of radiotherapy

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: ECOG 0 or 1 Hematopoietic:
        (within 2 weeks prior to entry) WBC at least 4,000/mm3 Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3
        Hepatic: (within 2 weeks prior to entry) Bilirubin no greater than 2.0 mg/dL AST no
        greater than twice normal Renal: (within 2 weeks prior to entry) Creatinine no greater
        than 1.5 mg/dL OR Creatinine clearance greater than 40 mL/min Other: No active unresolved
        infection No concurrent parenteral antibiotics At least 7 days since parenteral
        antibiotics No history of prior malignancy within 5 years except: Curatively treated
        nonmelanomatous skin cancer In situ cancer of the cervix Not pregnant or nursing Adequate
        contraception required of fertile patients Physically and medically able to take oral
        medications

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: One prior systemic biological response
        modifier therapy allowed At least 3 weeks since biologic response modifier therapy and
        recovered Chemotherapy: See Disease Characteristics At least 3 weeks since chemotherapy
        and recovered Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: At least 4 weeks since
        radiotherapy Surgery: At least 3 weeks since major surgery and recovered
      
