TITLE:
Mechanisms of Inflammatory Liver Injury

CONDITION:
Liver Diseases

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      White blood cells can cause liver damage if they inappropriately accumulate in the liver in
      large numbers. Such an event can occur if an individual's blood is exposed to endotoxin, a
      substance released from the cell walls of many species of bacteria. The purpose of this
      study is to isolate neutrophils, an important white blood cell, from the blood of normal
      volunteers, and put them in tissue culture with isolated liver cells. The experiments will
      determine how endotoxin can increase the ability of neutrophils to damage liver cells. All
      studies supported by this grant will be done with isolated cells in tissue culture. This
      experimental model will reveal possible mechanisms that can in the future be evaluated in
      human diseases such as bacterial sepsis.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Neutrophils will be isolated from normal human volunteers and placed in cell culture with
      isolated hepatocytes or C3A cells (hepatoblastoma cell line that exhibit many
      characteristics of normal hepatocytes). These experiments will evaluate the mechanisms by
      which neutrophil adhere to the surface of hepatocytes, and the mechanisms by which the
      attached neutrophils can damage or kill the hepatocytes. Mechanisms of adhesion will involve
      understanding of the chemokines released by the hepatocytes that stimulate neutrophil
      adhesiveness, the cytokines that activate hepatocytes to express chemokines and adhesion
      molecules, the adhesion receptors on the neutrophil surface that are able to recognize the
      adhesion molecules on the hepatocyte surface, and the ability of adhesion to enhance and
      focus cytotoxic chemicals coming from the stimulated neutrophils. In addition, the role
      endotoxin can play in these sequence of events is being studies, and the specific cytotoxic
      mechanisms released by the neutrophils are under study. As noted in the brief summary, this
      grant only supports use of human cells in vitro (i.e., all experiments will be done in
      tissue culture). The purpose of working with this experimental model is to define what
      mechanisms should in future experiments be evaluated in patients with endotoxin induced
      disease.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 21 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        Only blood from normal subjects will be used in the in vitro experiments.
      
