TITLE:
Environment and Reproductive Health; Human Exposure to Bisphenol A, Phthalates and Fertility and Pregnancy Outcomes

CONDITION:
Infertility

INTERVENTION:
Completion questionnaires/providing biological samples

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of the study is to investigate the relationship between environmental agents and
      reproductive health. Environmental agents of interest include exposure to chemicals such as
      polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), flame retardants, dioxins, bisphenol A, phthalates,
      pesticides, and metals like lead and cadmium. We are also interested in the relationship
      between reproductive health and lifestyle risk factors, such as exposure to environmental
      tobacco smoke. Enrollees are asked to participate in this study because they and their
      partner are patients of the MGH Fertility Center, trying to get pregnant, either naturally
      or by undergoing Intrauterine Insemination (IUI) and/or In Vitro Fertilization (IVF).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Specific Aim #1: To determine the association of a mixture of paternal urinary
      concentrations of phthalate metabolites, BPA and parabens with the primary outcomes of
      implantation failure and live birth, and the secondary outcomes of chemical pregnancy (with
      no subsequent clinical pregnancy) and spontaneous abortion.

      Hypothesis 1: Higher paternal urinary concentrations of a mixture of anti-androgenic
      phthalate metabolites of DEHP, DBP, DiBP, BBzP, and DiNP is associated with increased risk
      of implantation failure and reduced live birth rate, and increased risk of chemical
      pregnancy and spontaneous abortion.

      Hypothesis 2: Higher paternal urinary concentrations of a mixture of estrogenic chemicals
      (BPA and parabens) is associated with increased risk of implantation failure and reduced
      live birth rate, and increased risk of chemical pregnancy and spontaneous abortion.

      Specific Aim #2: To determine the association of a mixture of maternal urinary
      concentrations of phthalate metabolites, BPA and parabens with implantation failure and live
      birth rate, and the secondary outcomes of chemical pregnancy and spontaneous abortion.

      Hypothesis 2: Higher maternal urinary concentrations of a mixture of anti-androgenic
      phthalate metabolites of DEHP, DBP, DiBP, BBzP, and DiNP is associated with increased risk
      of implantation failure and reduced live birth rate, and increased risk of chemical
      pregnancy and spontaneous abortion.

      Hypothesis 3: Higher maternal urinary concentrations of a mixture of estrogenic BPA and
      parabens is associated with increased risk of implantation failure and reduced live birth
      rate, and increased risk of chemical pregnancy and spontaneous abortion.

      Specific Aim #3: To determine the joint effect of maternal and paternal urinary
      concentrations of phthalate metabolites, BPA and parabens with primary outcomes of interest
      including implantation failure and live birth rate, and the secondary outcomes of chemical
      pregnancy and spontaneous abortion.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Couples undergoing treatment for infertility at MGH Clinic

          2. Men 18-55 years old

          3. Women 18 - 45 years old

        Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Any individual or couple who is not undergoing infertility treatment at MGH Clinic and
        or who is outside of age range.
      
