TITLE:
A Safety and Efficacy Study of DENSPM in Patients With Liver Cancer Who Are Not Eligible for Surgical Care

CONDITION:
Carcinoma, Hepatocellular

INTERVENTION:
DENSPM )

SUMMARY:

      Approximately 18-45 patients with Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) will be treated with DENSPM
      at approximately 5 centers in the United States. First, we will be trying to determine the
      highest dose that can be given safely and is well tolerated (this is called the maximally
      tolerated dose, or the MTD, for short). Once that is established, we will enroll additional
      patients to learn more about potential side effects and to see whether DENSPM can slow the
      growth of HCC tumors. We also want to learn about the safety of DENSPM. Many medications
      used to treat cancer cause side effects (discomforts or illness). In this study, we want to
      understand what side effects occur in patients with HCC who are treated with DENSPM.Study
      was terminated after initial assessment of insufficient data to support clinical benefit in
      this population.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Histologically proven HCC, or if the patient is not a medically appropriate candidate
             for biopsy, then all of the following criteria must be met: A.History of cirrhosis or
             chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) or hepatitis C virus (HCV)infection. B.A focal liver
             lesion  3 cm on CT or MRI with arterial hypervascularization. C.Confirmation of the
             liver lesion by a second imaging modality (US/ CT/ MRI).D.AFP 1000 ng/ml, or  4000
             ng/ml if Hepatitis B surface Ag positive.

          -  For recurrent HCC, radiographic evidence of progression.

          -  Not appropriate for curative therapy (surgical resection) or refuses potentially
             curative therapy

          -  Measurable disease, defined as having at least one measurable intrahepatic tumor
             lesion (using Response Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST]). Prior therapy is
             acceptable only if there is documented progression of the selected measurable
             lesion(s) following completion of the therapy.

          -  Required laboratory values

          -  Renal function: serum creatinine 1.2mg/dL Hematologic function: leukocyte count
             1,500/mm3, platelet count 50,000/mm3 Hepatic function: transaminases 5x upper
             limit normal (ULN), albumin 2.0g/dL, total bilirubin 3.5mg/dL Sodium: 130mEq/L

          -  Karnofsky Performance Status of  60%

          -  CLIP Score  3

          -  If female and of childbearing potential, must use an effective method of
             contraception

          -  Willing and able to provide written informed consent

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Has received localized therapy (e.g., radiotherapy, RFA, injection therapy, or
             chemoembolization)within 6 weeks prior to treatment, Day1. Prior local
             lesion-specific radiotherapy is acceptable only if the treated lesion(s) is/are not
             the only source of measurable disease or there is documented progression of the
             treated lesion(s) following completion of the therapy.

          -  Has received any other systemic therapy for HCC within 3 weeks prior to treatment,
             Day 1. Prior therapy is acceptable only if there is documented progression following
             completion of the therapy.

          -  Has received another investigational therapy within 30 days prior to study entry

          -  Has any unstable serious or life-threatening medical condition, other than HCC (e.g.,
             unstable angina, other cancer diagnosis with the exception of basal cell carcinoma,
             or patients with prior malignancy except for adequately treated basal cell
             carcinoma(s), in situ cervical cancer, or other cancer for which the patient has been
             disease-free for five or more years)

          -  Newly noted clinically significant electrocardiogram (ECG) abnormality

          -  Clinically significant abnormal laboratory result that is not consistent with
             patient's clinical course

          -  Active gastrointestinal bleeding resulting in clinically significant hemodynamic
             changes or a reduction in hemoglobin.

          -  Active inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and/or active gastric or duodenal ulcer
             disease

          -  Has a history of central nervous system (CNS) metastases, seizure disorder or
             neurological exam finding suggestive of CNS metastases

          -  Has Stage B or C liver cirrhosis according to Child-Pugh-Turcotte Classification

          -  Has ascites refractory to diuretic therapy

          -  Has any contraindication for MRI procedure

          -  If female of childbearing potential, has a positive serum HCG

          -  If female, is lactating
      
