TITLE:
Creatine in Treating Patients With Cancer-Associated Weight Loss

CONDITION:
Anorexia

INTERVENTION:
creatine monohydrate

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: It is not yet known whether the supplement creatine is effective in increasing
      weight and improving appetite and quality of life in patients who have cancer.

      PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is studying how well creatine works in increasing
      weight and improving appetite and quality of life in patients with weight loss caused by
      cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare weight-gain effects of creatine vs placebo in patients with cancer-associated
           weight loss and/or anorexia.

        -  Determine the effect of these regimens on quality of life in these patients.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare survival rates of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Patients are
      stratified according to primary cancer type (lung vs gastrointestinal vs other), weight loss
      severity (< 10 lbs vs 10 lbs), age (< 50 years vs  50 years), planned concurrent
      chemotherapy (yes vs no), gender, and prognosis. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral creatine daily.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo daily. In both arms, treatment continues in the
           absence of unacceptable toxicity as long as treatment is considered beneficial.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for up to 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 300 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed cancer other than primary brain cancer

               -  Considered incurable with available therapies

          -  History of weight loss  5 lbs in 2 months or fewer AND/OR estimated intake of < 20
             cal/kg daily

          -  Determination by attending physician that weight gain would benefit patient

          -  Perception by patient that weight loss is a problem

          -  No symptomatic or untreated brain metastases

          -  No clinical evidence of ascites

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy

          -  At least 3 months

        Renal

          -  Creatinine normal

        Cardiovascular

          -  No poorly controlled congestive heart failure

          -  No poorly controlled hypertension

        Other

          -  Able to reliably receive oral medication

          -  Must be alert and mentally competent

          -  No known obstruction of the alimentary tract, malabsorption, or intractable vomiting

          -  No diabetes that is controlled by insulin

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Chemotherapy

          -  Concurrent chemotherapy allowed

        Endocrine therapy

          -  No other concurrent adrenal corticosteroids, androgens, or progestational agents
             within 30 days after study entry

          -  Concurrent short-term dexamethasone for chemotherapy-associated emesis is allowed

          -  Concurrent inhalant, topical, or optical steroids allowed

        Radiotherapy

          -  No concurrent radiotherapy to the bowel or stomach

          -  Other concurrent radiotherapy allowed

        Other

          -  No prior creatine use

          -  No concurrent tube feedings or parenteral nutrition
      
