TITLE:
Celecoxib in Treating Patients With Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia

CONDITION:
Cervical Cancer

INTERVENTION:
hydrocortisone/placebo

SUMMARY:

      This randomized phase II trial is studying how well celecoxib works in preventing cervical
      cancer in patients with CIN. Chemoprevention therapy is the use of certain drugs to try to
      prevent the development of cancer or to treat early cancer. Celecoxib may be effective in
      preventing the development of cervical cancer in patients who have cervical intraepithelial
      neoplasia (CIN).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the efficacy of celecoxib, in terms of achieving histologic complete or partial
      response, in patients with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 2/3 or 3.

      II. Determine the toxicity of this drug in these patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the effect of this drug on changes in lesion size in these patients.

      II. Determine the effect of this drug on human papillomavirus (HPV) viral load in these
      patients.

      III. Correlate histologic response, HPV viral load, lesion size, proliferation index,
      apoptosis index, angiogenesis (VEGF) and COX-2 in tissue, amount of VEGF and bFGF in serum,
      and serum celecoxib levels during treatment in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to lesion size (covering   area of the cervix vs covering > 
      area of the cervix) and degree of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) (CIN 2/3 vs CIN
      3). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive oral celecoxib once daily for 14-18 weeks.

      ARM II: Patients receive oral placebo once daily for 14-18 weeks.

      Patients undergo colposcopy at week 8 and between weeks 14 and 18. Between weeks 14 and 18,
      patients with evidence of disease also undergo large loop excision of the transformation
      zone (cone biopsy) or cervical biopsy and patients with no evidence of disease undergo a
      cervical biopsy to confirm the absence of disease on colposcopy.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Histologically confirmed cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 2/3 or 3 by
             cervical biopsy 2-8 weeks prior to study entry

               -  Pathology report must clearly state "CIN 2/3" or "3" OR "moderate-severe
                  dysplasia," "moderate-severe dyskaryosis," "severe dysplasia," or "sever
                  dyskaryosis."

                    -  No CIN 2 alone OR moderate dysplasia or dyskaryosis alone

          -  Colposcopically visible cervical lesion at study entry that is consistent with biopsy

          -  No evidence of endocervical dysplasia or invasive cancer by cytology or biopsy

          -  No history of cervical cancer

          -  Performance status - GOG 0-2

          -  Platelet count > 125,000/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin > 11.0 g/dL

          -  WBC > 3,000/mm^3

          -  No significant bleeding disorder

          -  Bilirubin  1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN) (> 1.5 times ULN allowed if due to
             Gilbert's disease)

          -  AST and ALT < 2.0 times ULN

          -  No hepatic disorder

          -  Creatinine  1.5 times ULN

          -  No known renal failure

          -  No history of transient ischemic attack or stroke

          -  No history of cardiovascular disease

          -  No uncontrolled hypertension

          -  No undiagnosed abnormal vaginal bleeding

          -  No known immunocompromised condition

          -  No known allergic reaction (such as asthma, urticaria, or other reaction) to NSAIDs
             or aspirin

          -  No known hypersensitivity to celecoxib

          -  No known allergic reaction to sulfonamides

          -  No history of peptic ulcer disease

          -  Must be good candidate for delayed treatment of CIN (i.e., deemed reliable to return
             for follow-up and provide adequate contact information)

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No prior renal transplantation

          -  At least 15 days since prior nonsteriodal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs) or
             aspirin

          -  No other concurrent NSAIDs or aspirin

          -  No concurrent fluconazole or lithium
      
