TITLE:
Tarceva Surgery for Resectable Stage IIIA(N2) and IIIB (T4 N2) Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Lung Cancer

INTERVENTION:
Tarceva (OSI-774)

SUMMARY:

      The goal of this clinical research study is to learn about the safety and effectiveness of
      OSI-774 when combined with standard chemotherapy (carboplatin and paclitaxel) before surgery
      in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This is a phase II, single institution open label randomized trial of induction carboplatin
      and paclitaxel plus/minus daily oral OSI-774 in patients with potentially resectable NSCLC
      that is stage IIIA and IIIB (T4 satellite nodules or invasion into T4 structures but no
      malignant effusion.) N3 disease is excluded. Patients will be required to have
      pathologically demonstrated N2 disease via mediastinoscopy. Forty patients will be treated
      with 3 courses of chemotherapy followed by surgery. Ten of these patients will be randomized
      to chemotherapy alone and 30 patients to chemotherapy plus OSI-774. The 10 patients will
      serve as a chemotherapy alone control for molecular endpoint analysis. OSI-774 will be
      stopped the night before surgery. At the time of surgery, pathologic response will be
      determined. Following surgery, patients will be treated with consolidation radiation therapy
      if there are positive margins or N2 lymph nodes at the time of resection. Patients who have
      no N2 disease at surgery will have the option of consolidation radiation therapy but will
      not be required to have it done. Patients not able to tolerate radiation even if they have
      N2 disease or positive margins at surgery may continue on this study. This will be followed
      by maintenance OSI-774 for patients from both arms of the study. OSI-774 will be continued
      as maintenance to a maximum of 2 years following surgery. Tissue for molecular studies will
      be obtained pretreatment either at the time of diagnostic biopsy or mediastinoscopy.
      Post-treatment tissue will be obtained at the time of surgery. This tissue will be assayed
      for defined molecular endpoints using immunohistochemistry, immunoprecipitation and mRNA
      expression analysis. Blood, urine, hair follicles, and skin samples will also be collected
      from patients who consent to provide these.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Must have signed consent for LAB03-0383

          2. Pathologic documentation of NSCLC

          3. Stage IIIA and IIIB (T4 satellite nodules or invasion into T4 structures but no
             malignant effusion) with all patients requiring mediastinoscopy positive N2,
             potentially resectable disease. N3 disease is excluded.

          4. Measurable disease

          5. Zubrod performance status of 0 or 1

          6. Calculated post-resectional FEV1 of > 40%

          7. WBC>4000/l, ANC>1500/l, platelets > 100,000/l

          8. Serum creatinine < 1.5 ULN or calculated creatinine > 50 cc/min

          9. Total serum bilirubin <1.5 x ULN or SGPT or SGOT < 2 X ULN

         10. The following must be completed within 28 days of registration: CT scan of the chest
             and upper abdomen to include the adrenals. Mediastinoscopy to document ipsilateral
             nodal involvement and exclude N3 disease Blood tests, and pulmonary function tests
             The following must be completed within 2 months of registration: Pet scan If a CT PET
             is done more than 28 days, only the CT needs to be repeated and a bone scan to rule
             out bone metastases

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. No prior chemotherapy or radiation for NSCLC

          2. No prior malignancy is allowed except for adequately treated basal cell or squamous
             cell skin cancer, in situ cervical cancer, or other cancer from which the patient has
             been disease-free for at least five years. If patient is suspected or known to have
             basal or squamous skin cancer, this maybe treated after induction chemotherapy is
             completed at the time of thoracotomy.

          3. No post-obstructive pneumonia or other serious infection or other serious underlying
             medical condition that would impair ability of patient to receive protocol treatment,
             including prior allergic reactions to drugs containing cremophor.

          4. Pregnant or nursing women may not participate
      
