TITLE:
Maintenance Treatment for Abstinent Smokers

CONDITION:
Tobacco Use Disorder

INTERVENTION:
Bupropion

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of long-term
      pharmacotherapy (using Zyban and/or nicotine replacement) for reducing the relapse rate
      associated with stopping smoking.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The goal of this study was to assess relapse prevention outcomes among individuals able to
      stop smoking when pharmacotherapy is extended beyond the standard duration of treatment. We
      hypothesized that maintenance treatment with prolonged bupropion use and/or "as needed" use
      of nicotine gum will reduce relapse to smoking. Participants were recruited through
      advertisements on radio, television, newspapers, the Internet, and various community
      outlets. Respondents were pre-screened by telephone using a standard interview. The first
      participant entered the OLT phase in February 2001; the final NTFU visit took place in
      October 2005.

      The study was multi-phased consisting of: 1) eight-week open-label treatment (OLT) with
      bupropion and nicotine patch; 2) randomized double-blind assignment of OLT successes to 16
      weeks of placebo-controlled maintenance treatment (MT); and 3) 24 weeks of non-treatment
      follow-up (NTFU). Participants received $25 compensation for completing the NTFU visits at
      Weeks 36 and 48. The Institutional Review Board of the New York State Psychiatric Institute
      approved the study. The study was performed at the Columbia University Medical Center
      Smoking Cessation Clinic in New York City.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 21 Years to 75 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients who smoke at least 10 cigarettes daily and have attempted to quit smoking at
             least once

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Seizure History

          -  Unstable Blood Pressure

          -  Current major depression

          -  Current alcohol/drug abuse or dependency

          -  Lifetime psychotic illness

          -  Current use of psychotropic drugs

          -  Unstable medical condition
      
