TITLE:
CALERIE (PBRC, Baton Rouge) - Comprehensive Assessment of Long-Term Effects of Reducing Intake of Energy

CONDITION:
Aging

INTERVENTION:
Caloric Restriction (CR)

SUMMARY:

      This study is one of three CALERIE trials that test the hypothesis that a reduced calorie,
      nutritionally sound diet improves biomarkers of aging and prevents some age-related chronic
      diseases such as cancer, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. The three sites that are
      participating in the CALERIE trial represent a diversity of subject populations and
      interventional strategies.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This study tests whether chronic caloric restriction improves risk factors of longevity in
      humans as it is known to do in animals, by measuring a variety of factors dealing with
      metabolism and oxidative stress, through physical evaluations and laboratory tests.

      Participants will receive dietary counseling and free medical evaluations. In addition, each
      volunteer will be asked to do one of the following:

        1. Follow a reduced calorie diet

        2. Follow a reduced calorie diet using a liquid diet

        3. Increase physical activity while on a reduced calorie diet

        4. Follow a standard diet.

      Three separate five-day inpatient stays are required.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 25 Years to 50 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Resident of greater Baton Rouge area for 1 year or longer

          -  Men between ages 25-50

          -  Women between ages 25-45

          -  Body Mass Index (BMI) between 25-30 (never having had BMI greater than 32)

          -  Healthy, non-smokers with no history of cardiovascular disease, high blood pressure,
             diabetes, eating disorder, or major psychiatric disorder

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnant or breastfeeding

          -  Personal history of cardiovascular disease or elevated high blood pressure (higher
             than 160/90 mmHg)

          -  Abnormal electrocardiogram (EKG)

          -  Personal history of diabetes

          -  Personal history of major psychiatric disorders

          -  Personal history of eating disorder

          -  Smoking

          -  Exercising regularly (more than twice a week)

          -  Individuals with alcoholism or other substance abuse

          -  Post obese (never have had a BMI greater than 32)

          -  Regular use of medications, except oral contraceptives

          -  Individuals who were ever injured by a metallic foreign body which was not removed

          -  Individuals who wear braces on their teeth, have non-removable false teeth, or
             non-removable bridgework

          -  Individuals in occupations requiring full alertness and motor skills (airline pilots,
             etc.) where even a small chance of postural dizziness would be unacceptable.
      
