TITLE:
Volociximab in Combination With DTIC in Patients With Metastatic Melanoma Not Previously Treated With Chemotherapy

CONDITION:
Melanoma

INTERVENTION:
M200 (volociximab) in Combination with Dacarbazine (DTIC)

SUMMARY:

      This clinical trial is being conducted to determine tumor response and preliminary safety of
      a monoclonal antibody that specifically binds to a cell surface receptor (51 integrin)
      that is required for the establishment of new blood vessels during tumor growth, a process
      known as angiogenesis.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Males and females of at least 18 years of age with stage IV or unresectable stage III
             non-ocular melanoma who may have received 0 to 2 prior regimens for metastatic
             disease with a biological therapy or immunotherapy (e.g., IL-2 or interferon-alfa).

          -  Measurable disease according to Response Criteria for Solid Tumors (RECIST).

          -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status less than or equal to 1.

          -  Estimated survival is greater or equal to 4 months.

          -  Negative pregnancy test (women of childbearing potential only).

          -  Pretreatment laboratory levels that meet specific criteria.

          -  Signed informed consent, including permission to use protected health information.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Prior treatment with M200 or a5b1 inhibitors and murine or chimeric monoclonal
             antibodies.

          -  Prior treatment with DTIC, temozolomide, or other chemotherapeutic regimens.

          -  Known sensitivity to murine proteins or chimeric antibodies or other components of
             the product.

          -  Use of any investigational drug within 4 weeks prior to screening or 5 half-lives of
             the prior investigational drug (whichever is longer).

          -  Systemic biologic, immunotherapy, and/or radiation therapy within 4 weeks of the
             first dose of M200.

          -  Documented central nervous system (CNS) tumor or CNS metastasis.

          -  History of thromboembolic events and bleeding disorders within the past year.

          -  Medical conditions that may be exacerbated by bleeding.
      
