TITLE:
Decompression Coring Versus Conservative Therapy in Patients With Avascular Necrosis of the Hip Related to Sickle Cell Disease

CONDITION:
Bone Avascular Necrosis

INTERVENTION:
Core decompression

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Phase II trial to determine surgical morbidity of decompression coring,
      including any adverse events in the perioperative period and the rate of secondary medical
      or surgical interventions.

      II. Collect preliminary data to determine if decompression coring results in a substantial
      improvement in pain and mobility compared to conservative therapy in patients with avascular
      necrosis of the hip related to sickle cell disease.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according
      to stage of avascular necrosis (I vs II vs III). Patients are randomized into one of two
      treatment arms.

      Arm I: Patients undergo a core biopsy and decompression of the hip followed by a
      standardized program of touch down or nonweight bearing with appropriate equipment and
      regular physical therapy for 6 weeks and then full weight bearing if tolerated.

      Arm II: Patients undergo the standardized ambulation and physical therapy program as in arm
      I. They do not undergo any surgical procedure.

      For 1 week prior to the beginning of the standardized program and during the 6 weeks of
      touch down or nonweight bearing, all patients complete a weekly pain and medication diary.

      Patients are followed at 3 months and 6 months, then every 6 months for 1.5 years, and then
      annually for up to 5 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 10 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion criteria:

          -  Diagnosis of stage I, II, or III avascular necrosis (AVN) by MRI or plain film
             imaging that is related to sickle cell disease

          -  Clinically moderate to severe pain originating from the hip and/or limitation of
             movement of the affected hip

          -  AVN in the contralateral hip allowed, regardless of stage, if the primary hip is
             eligible If both hips eligible, most symptomatic hip enrolled

        Exclusion criteria:

          -  Non-sickle cell arthropathies

          -  Concurrent chronic steroids

          -  Chronic transfusion therapy

          -  Alcoholism
      
