TITLE:
Surgery Plus Combination Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Cancer of the Urinary Tract

CONDITION:
Bladder Cancer

INTERVENTION:
cisplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor
      cells. Combining surgery with chemotherapy and radiation therapy may be an effective way to
      treat cancer of the urinary tract.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining surgery, chemotherapy and
      radiation therapy in treating patients who have stage II, stage III, or stage IV cancer of
      the urinary tract .
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Assess the quality of life of patients with invasive stage II, III, or IV
      carcinoma of the urothelium treated with conservative surgery plus cisplatin, fluorouracil,
      and radiotherapy. II. Determine the efficacy of this regimen, in terms of local control, in
      these patients. III. Determine survival of patients treated with this regimen. IV. Determine
      the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to tumor type
      (T2-4a, N0, M0; potentially resectable; no contraindication to surgery vs T2-4b, N0 or N1 or
      pN1, M0; refused surgery or medical contraindications to surgery). (Accrual for stratum I
      was completed as of 10/23/2001.) Stratum I (resectable disease): Regimen A: Patients undergo
      radiotherapy 5 days a week for 5 weeks. Patients also receive fluorouracil IV continuously
      and cisplatin IV continuously on days 1-4 during weeks 1 and 4. If complete response is
      achieved by week 5, patients proceed to regimen B. If partial response or progression is
      observed, patients undergo cystectomy. If cystectomy is refused, patients proceed to regimen
      B. Regimen B: Patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 2 weeks. Patients also receive
      fluorouracil and cisplatin as in regimen A on weeks 2 and 5. (Accrual for stratum I was
      completed as of 10/23/2001.) Stratum II (unresectable disease): Patients undergo
      radiotherapy 5 days a week for 7 weeks. Patients also receive fluorouracil and cisplatin as
      in regimen A on weeks 1, 4, and 7. Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at 6 months, and
      then at 1 year. Patients are followed at 6-8 weeks, every 6 months for 2 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 75 patients (35 for stratum I and 40 for stratum II) will be
      accrued for this study. (Accrual for stratum I was completed as of 10/23/2001.)
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed stage II, III, or IV carcinoma of the
        urothelium infiltrating muscle Primary OR After development of a superficial tumor T2-T4b
        with or without lymph node involvement and no detectable metastases No epidermoid cancer
        or adenocarcinoma No extrapelvic lymph node involvement

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 to 70 Performance status: WHO 0-2 Life expectancy: More
        than 6 months Hematopoietic: WBC greater than 4,000/mm3 Platelet count greater than
        100,000/mm3 Neutrophil count greater than 1,500/mm3 Hemoglobin greater than 10 g/dL
        Hepatic: Not specified Renal: Creatinine less than 1.5 mg/dL Other: Not pregnant Fertile
        patients must use effective contraception during and for 2 months after study No other
        prior malignancy except nonmelanomatous skin cancer or carcinoma in situ of the cervix No
        prior serious illness of the gastrointestinal tract (e.g., rectal bleeding or
        diverticulosis with complications) No contraindication to fluorouracil, cisplatin, or
        radiotherapy

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: No prior
        chemotherapy except intravesicular instillations Endocrine therapy: Not specified
        Radiotherapy: No prior radiotherapy Surgery: Not specified
      
