TITLE:
Genetic Study in Patients Receiving Treatment for Hodgkin's Disease or Childhood Brain Tumor

CONDITION:
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors

INTERVENTION:
chromosomal translocation analysis

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Determination of genetic markers for leukemia or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma that is
      secondary to Hodgkin's disease and childhood brain tumors may help doctors to identify
      patients who are at risk for these cancers.

      PURPOSE: Clinical trial to determine the presence of certain genes in patients who are
      receiving treatment for Hodgkin's disease or childhood brain tumors.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the frequency of chromosome 3, 11, and 21 aberrations in peripheral
      blood lymphocytes (PBL) specifically associated with acute myelogenous leukemia in patients
      with adult or pediatric Hodgkin's disease treated with radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy. II.
      Determine the frequency of these aberrations in patients with pediatric central nervous
      system tumors treated with radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy. III. Determine the
      glutathione-S-transferase allotype, associated with human toxicological response to
      carcinogen exposure, for these patients. IV. Determine the frequency of t(14;18) gene
      rearrangement, associated with deregulation of the bcl-2 proto-oncogene in non-Hodgkin's
      lymphoma, in PBL of these patients.

      OUTLINE: An extra tube of blood is collected before, every 4 weeks during, and every 3
      months after radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy. DNA is isolated from the blood sample and the
      GSTM1, GSTT1, and various cytochrome P (CYP) 450 genotypes are determined by polymerase
      chain reaction (PCR). Mononuclear leukocytes are analyzed for chromosome aberrations on
      chromosome numbers 3, 11, and 21. Pretreatment karyotype and frequency of translocations are
      determined for each patient. Peripheral blood lymphocyte DNA is also examined for t(14;18)
      gene rearrangements.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Diagnosis of Hodgkin's disease Adult or child OR Diagnosis of
        primary central nervous system (CNS) malignancy 16 and under Medulloblastoma Ependymoma
        Brain stem glioma Astrocytoma Primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) Proposed therapy must
        include external beam radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: See Disease Characteristics Any age Performance status: Not
        specified Life expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic: Not
        specified Renal: Not specified

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: See Disease
        Characteristics Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: See Disease Characteristics
        Surgery: Not specified
      
