TITLE:
Chronic Thalidomide Administration in Patients Undergoing Chemoembolization for Unresectable Hepatocellular Cancer

CONDITION:
Liver Cancer

INTERVENTION:
thalidomide

SUMMARY:

      This is a clinical trial to test the safety and efficacy of the drug thalidomide in
      combination with a procedure called chemoembolization in patients with inoperable liver
      cancer. Chemoembolization is the process by which chemotherapy is instilled directly into
      the blood vessels feeding the tumor, so that the blood vessels feeding the tumor may be
      blocked. Chemoembolization consists of two separate procedures. It will be done by infusing
      chemotherapy with the drug doxorubicin through the hepatic artery into the liver and then by
      infusing collagen to cut off the blood supply to the tumor. A catheter will be inserted at
      various times to allow for these infusions.

      The objectives are to investigate the feasibility and potential activity of chronic
      administration of thalidomide in patients with unresectable hepatocellular cancer who
      receive chemoembolization to predominant tumor masses. The toxicity of thalidomide in these
      patients will be evaluated. Overall safety will also be assessed. Serum levels of angiogenic
      cytokines such as VEGF, bFGF, and TNF-a, that are believed to have a role in hepatocellular
      carcinoma, will be collected.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma.

          -  MRI of liver must show discrete tumor nodules. Lesions on angiography must be
             hypervascular.

          -  Patient must have the following minimum labs: ANC> 1200/mm3; Hemoglobin > 8 mg/dl;
             platelets > 50,000 mm3; hepatic transaminases < 5x normal; bilirubin < 3.0 mg/dl; and
             creatinine < 1.5 mg/dl.

          -  ECOG performance status > 2.

          -  No history of prior chemotherapy or biologic therapy for hepatocellular carcinoma.

          -  No other history of malignancy other than curatively resected basal cell carcinoma of
             the skin or carcinoma in situ of the cervix.

          -  Patients must not be pregnant or lactating.

          -  Sexually active men and women of childbearing age must use adequate contraception.
             All patients must understand the potential for severe birth defects with thalidomide
             and must be able to follow instructions to avoid conception while taking thalidomide
      
