TITLE:
Monoclonal Antibody Therapy in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Small Cell Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Lung Cancer

INTERVENTION:
indium In 111 monoclonal antibody MN-14

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies can locate tumor cells and either kill them or deliver
      tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of monoclonal antibody therapy in treating
      patients who have relapsed or refractory small cell lung cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the dose limiting toxicity and maximum tolerated dose of yttrium Y 90
           anti-CEA monoclonal antibody MN-14 in patients with relapsed or refractory small cell
           lung cancer.

        -  Determine the dosimetric and pharmacokinetic properties of this treatment regimen in
           the blood, normal organs, and tumors of these patients.

        -  Determine the stability and complexation with circulating carcinoembryonic antigen of
           this radioantibody in the plasma of these patients.

        -  Determine the antibody response of these patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the antitumor effects of this treatment regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of yttrium Y 90 anti-CEA monoclonal antibody MN-14
      (90Y-hMN-14). Patients are stratified according to prior radiotherapy (yes vs no).

      Patients undergo pretherapy imaging with indium In 111 anti-CEA monoclonal antibody MN-14 IV
      over 30-40 minutes on day -7 or -6 followed by external scintigraphy on days -7 or -6 to 0.

      Patients who show positive localization of at least one documented tumor site receive
      90Y-hMN-14 IV over 30-40 minutes on day 0.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of 90Y-hMN-14 until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed at 2, 4, 8, and 12 weeks; every 3 months for 2 years; and then every 6
      months for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15-30 patients will be accrued for this study within 10-14
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed small cell lung cancer (SCLC)

               -  Must have received at least one prior course of standard chemotherapy and, if
                  indicated, up to 6,900 cGy of thoracic radiotherapy

               -  Patients who received prior radiotherapy must show evidence of progressive
                  disease

               -  Patients who received no prior radiotherapy to the primary tumor must show
                  evidence of stable or progressive disease

          -  Measurable disease

          -  Must have evidence of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) production or expression
             documented by one of the following:

               -  Serum CEA at least 10 ng/mL

               -  Positive immunohistology of either the primary tumor or a metastasis with CEA
                  specific monoclonal antibody

          -  Must have unilateral bone marrow biopsy with less than 25% tumor involvement

          -  No known, active brain metastases

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  Karnofsky 70-100%

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 3 months

        Hematopoietic:

          -  WBC at least 3,000/mm^3

          -  Granulocyte count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 2 mg/dL

          -  AST no greater than 2 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  No hepatitis B or C

          -  No other serious liver abnormality

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 times ULN

          -  No urinary incontinence

        Cardiovascular:

          -  Ejection fraction at least 50%

        Pulmonary:

          -  FEV_1 and FVC at least 60%

          -  DLCO at least 50% predicted

        Other:

          -  No severe anorexia, nausea, or vomiting

          -  No other significant medical problems

          -  No prisoners

          -  No reactivity to humanized MN-14 (in patients with prior exposure to chimeric or
             humanized antibody)

          -  HIV negative

          -  No active HIV-related disease

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception during and for at least 3 months
             following study participation

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  See Chemotherapy

          -  No concurrent growth factors (e.g., filgrastim [G-CSF])

        Chemotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy

          -  No prior high dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplantation

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy

          -  Prior radiotherapy to less than 30% of red marrow (including standard chest x-ray for
             limited stage SCLC) allowed

        Surgery:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior major surgery
      
