TITLE:
Tumor Lysate Pulsed-Dendritic Cell Vaccines After High-Dose Chemotherapy for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma

CONDITION:
Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin

INTERVENTION:
tumor-pulsed dendritic cells

SUMMARY:

      When patients relapse after primary chemotherapy for Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, they may be
      eligible to receive high-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell support. Unfortunately
      high-dose chemotherapy is curative in less than half the patients who receive it. This study
      is being conducted to determine the safety, side effects, and the ability to respond to an
      investigational vaccine that consists of tumor-pulsed dendritic cells given with an immune
      stimulating drug called interleukin-2. The patient must have a lymphomatous node accessible
      for excision to prepare the vaccine. Dendritic cells are immune cells that are obtained from
      the blood, and are important in the body's immune response to foreign substances. This study
      will examine the response of the immune system after three vaccinations (composed of
      dendritic cells, which have been exposed to dead fragments of lymphoma cells) given
      beginning three months after transplant. Vaccination may result in sensitizing the patient's
      dendritic cells to his lymphoma cells, potentially resulting in an immune response against
      the lymphoma. Twelve patients will be treated on study.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 10 Years to 70 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Histologically documented, aggressive and/or intermediate grade NHL, B-cell and
             T-cell.

          -  In relapse after first-line conventional chemotherapy. Primary therapy should include
             a doxorubicin-based regimen.

          -  Patients must have disease sensitive to induction chemotherapy, radiation therapy,
             and/or radioimmunotherapy. Successful treatment of CNS or meningeal disease is
             allowed.

          -  Patients must have accessible tumor for biopsy or excision.

          -  Cumulative total doxorubicin: <500 mg/m2

          -  Performance score 0-2

          -  No prior pelvic RT

          -  Patients with a prior malignancy are eligible if they were treated for cure and have
             no evidence of active disease.

          -  Patients may not be taking immunosuppressive agents.

          -  Informed Consent; IRB approval
      
