TITLE:
Treatment for Alcoholism and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (Naltrexone)

CONDITION:
Alcoholism

INTERVENTION:
Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy

SUMMARY:

      This study will evaluate naltrexone and cognitive-behavioral therapy treatments for alcohol
      dependence and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Subjects will be randomly assigned a
      6-month treatment of either: 1) naltrexone alone, 2) naltrexone with PTSD psychosocial
      therapy, 3) a placebo with PTSD psychosocial therapy, or 4) placebo alone. An enhanced
      medication management intervention will accompany all treatment conditions. Follow-up
      assessments will be completed at 9 and 12 months after treatment.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Meets criteria for alcohol dependence and post-traumatic stress disorder.

          -  Heavy drinking in the past 30 days (an average of more than 12 alcohol drinks per
             week with at least 1 day of 4 or more drinks).

          -  Successfully complete medical detoxification.

          -  Exhibit clinically significant trauma-related symptoms.

          -  Live in a commutable distance to the University of Pennsylvania and agree to
             follow-up visits.

          -  Aged between 18 and 65 years old.

          -  Able to provide an informed consent.

          -  Speak and read English.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Current diagnosis of any substance dependence other than alcohol, nicotine, or
             cannabis.

          -  Evidence of opiate use in the past 30 days.

          -  Significant risk of violence or history of serious violent behavior during the past
             year.

          -  Continued contact with an intimate partner if assault by the partner is the index
             trauma.

          -  Changes in dosage or medication for any SSRI treatment in the three months prior to
             entering the study.

          -  Unstable or serious medical illness.

          -  Current severe psychiatric symptom.

          -  Mental retardation or another pervasive developmental disorder.

          -  Use of an investigational medication in the past 30 days.

          -  Pregnant, nursing or not using reliable contraception.
      
