TITLE:
Glucose Regulation During Risperidone and Olanzapine Treatment

CONDITION:
Schizophrenia

INTERVENTION:
risperidone

SUMMARY:

      The overall purpose of this research is to look at how two of the most commonly prescribed
      newer antipsychotic medications, risperidone and olanzapine, affect substances in the body
      such as glucose and insulin. Undesirable changes in blood sugar control, or glucose
      regulation, and type 2 diabetes can occur more commonly in individuals with schizophrenia
      compared to healthy subjects and subjects with other psychiatric conditions. While
      abnormalities in glucose regulation were first reported in schizophrenia before the
      introduction of antipsychotic medications, antipsychotic treatment may contribute
      significantly to abnormalities in glucose regulation. Attention to the way that
      antipsychotic medications may affect glucose regulation has increased as doctors have become
      more concerned in general about disease- and drug-related medical complications, including
      weight gain during antipsychotic treatment.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This study will include 70 patients diagnosed with schizophrenia, taking either risperidone,
      olanzapine or haloperidol, and 20 healthy control subjects. Each subject will undergo a 4
      hour glucose tolerance test. In addition, there will be a small project within the overall
      study to measure the effects of risperidone and olanzapine on glucose regulation as the
      individuals switch from their prior treatment with a conventional antipsychotic medication
      to either risperidone or olanzapine. Ten subjects will be studied on a typical neuroleptic
      at baseline then switched over a one week period to risperidone or olanzapine. The
      participants will be evaluated at 1 week, 4 weeks, and 12 weeks, prospectively. Each
      evaluation will consist of a 4 hour glucose tolerance test.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  meet DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia, any type, or schizoaffective disorder;

          -  able to give informed consent;

          -  no medication changes for 2 weeks prior to and during the period of study;

          -  currently taking olanzapine, risperidone, haloperidol or another typical
             antipsychotic
      
