TITLE:
Half-Dose Flu Vaccine Study in Healthy Adults

CONDITION:
Influenza

INTERVENTION:
Approved influenza virus vaccine.

SUMMARY:

      It appears likely that there will be a delay and possibly a reduction in the amount of
      influenza vaccine available for the 2000-2001 influenza season. One possible way of
      increasing the availability of influenza vaccine for this year is to use a half-dose in
      healthy adults. The objective of this study is to determine if the immune system responds to
      a half-dose the same way it responds to a whole dose. This study will use the currently
      approved inactivated influenza vaccine in healthy adults ages 18 to 49 years old.

      If the immune response to the half-dose is not significantly different than the immune
      response generated to the whole dose, this could be a strategy to extend the amount of
      vaccine that could be available in this age group.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Eligible subjects will be randomized to receive a single intramuscular injection of either a
      half-dose or a whole dose of a currently approved influenza virus vaccine in their arm.
      Prior to vaccination, subjects will have one tube of blood drawn. Subjects will be given a
      3-day diary card to record any symptoms they may experience and asked to return for a second
      and final visit approximately 21 days following vaccination. A second blood draw will be
      done.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 49 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

        Volunteers may be eligible for this trial if they:

          -  Are able to and have given informed consent.

          -  Are able to understand and comply with all study procedures and to complete study
             diary.

          -  Are aged 18 to 49 years.

          -  Are female, and are not pregnant.

          -  Are available for all study visits.

        Exclusion Criteria:

        Volunteers will not be eligible for this trial if they:

          -  Are allergic to eggs or egg products.

          -  Have a current chronic medical condition for which influenza vaccine is normally
             recommended.

          -  Have received experimental vaccines or medications within 30 days of study entry.

          -  Have received parenteral immunoglobulin within 30 days of study entry.
      
