TITLE:
Treatment of Chronic Pain After Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) or Amputation

CONDITION:
Spinal Cord Injuries

INTERVENTION:
cognitive therapy

SUMMARY:

      Pain is a major problem for people after spinal cord injuries and amputations. This is a
      study to test how pain is affected by adding methadone to a six-week program of weekly
      physical therapy, relaxation training and counseling. Individuals who qualify for this study
      will receive a comprehensive medical and physical therapy evaluation.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Pain has a major impact on the functioning of individuals with spinal cord injuries and
      individuals with amputations. This double-masked randomized trial to evaluate the utility of
      a combination of psychological intervention and physical therapy in order to improve pain
      reduction, increase physical functioning and quality of life for patients with pain
      associated with spinal cord injuries or amputations will compare the effect of a 6 week
      program of physical therapy and cognitive-behavioral therapy with methadone to one without
      methadone (n = 400). Secondary outcomes are to evaluate the maintenance of effects of the
      combined intervention and to evaluate the usefulness of a course of opioid therapy compared
      to active placebo medication. Based on the sample size, all measures have greater than 0.7
      power to detect major within group differences at posttreatment, 6-month follow-up, and
      12-month follow-up (taking into account a 15% attrition rate, alpha .05). Patients who
      qualify for this study will receive a comprehensive medical and physical therapy evaluation
      at baseline. Outcome will be assessed by the physician, psychiatrist and physical therapist
      who are all masked both to the treatment condition and therapy. Pain is assessed through
      self-report (measures include pain inventories) and clinical interview.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Individuals with spinal cord injury or amputation, who have persistent pain of three
             months or longer duration.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnant women

          -  Allergy to latex, methadone, or diphenhydramine

          -  Surgery planned

          -  History of substance abuse in past two years

          -  History of major psychiatric disorder
      
