TITLE:
Androgen Suppression Plus Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
LHRH agonist

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Androgens can cause the growth of prostate cancer cells. Drugs, such as
      leuprolide, goserelin, flutamide, or bicalutamide, may stop the adrenal glands from making
      androgens. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Giving these
      drugs together with radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well androgen suppression with either
      leuprolide or goserelin and either flutamide or bicalutamide together with radiation therapy
      works in treating patients with prostate cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the feasibility of androgen-suppression therapy combined with external-beam
           radiotherapy and boost brachytherapy (EBRT+BT) in patients with intermediate-risk
           localized prostate cancer.

        -  Determine the safety of EBRT+BT in these patients.

        -  Determine, in a preliminary manner, the efficacy of EBRT+BT in terms of rate of local
           recurrence at 5 years, time to prostate-specific antigen failure, and time to first
           rectal/bladder injury, in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive either leuprolide intramuscularly or goserelin subcutaneously once
      every 12 weeks for a total of 24 weeks. Patients also receive either oral flutamide three
      times daily or oral bicalutamide once daily for 4 weeks.

      Within 4 weeks after initiation of androgen-suppression therapy, patients undergo
      external-beam radiotherapy (EBRT) once daily, 5 days a week, for 5 weeks. At 2-4 weeks after
      completion of EBRT, patients undergo transrectal ultrasound-guided boost brachytherapy with
      implanted iodine I 125 or palladium Pd 103 seeds.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 4 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 18 Years to 120 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the prostate

               -  Must have one of the following prognostic factors:

                    -  Stage T1-2, N0; prostate-specific antigen (PSA)  10 ng/mL; and Gleason
                       score > 6

                    -  Stage T1-2, N0; PSA > 10 ng/mL and < 20 ng/mL; and Gleason score  6

                    -  Stage T3a, N0; PSA  10 ng/mL; and Gleason score  6

          -  Prostate volume < 60 cc by transrectal ultrasound

          -  No distant or nodal metastases

               -  No metastatic disease by bone scan, CT scan, or MRI

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Absolute neutrophil count  1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count  100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin  1.5 times upper limit of normal

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  No prior immunotherapy for prostate cancer

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior chemotherapy for prostate cancer

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Prior androgen-suppression therapy for up to 4 weeks duration allowed if initiated
             within 4 weeks of study radiotherapy

          -  No other prior hormonal therapy

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No prior radiotherapy for prostate cancer

        Surgery:

          -  No prior surgery for prostate cancer

          -  No prior transurethral resection of the prostate

        Other:

          -  No prior alternative therapy (e.g., PC-SPES) for prostate cancer
      
