TITLE:
A Study of the Safety and Effectiveness of an HIV Vaccine for HIV-Positive Patients Receiving Anti-HIV Drugs for at Least 2 Years

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
ALVAC(2)120(B,MN)GNP (vCP1452)

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to see if 2 study vaccines, ALVAC-HIV (vCP1452) and gp160
      MN/LAI-2, are safe and effective in boosting the body's attacks on HIV in HIV-positive
      patients.

      HIV-infected patients who have been treated with anti-HIV drugs for a long time may have
      weakened immune responses. One way to strengthen these responses may be to have a safe and
      effective vaccine, which will boost immune responses that are specific to HIV.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      HIV-infected patients treated with antiretroviral therapy for prolonged periods of time may
      show decreased levels of HIV-specific immune responses. In these patients, a prime-boost
      vaccine strategy may induce both humoral and cell-mediated immunity. The hypothesis of this
      study is that the vaccine strategy selected will be both safe and immunogenic in the patient
      population being tested.

      Patients continue antiretroviral medications throughout the course of this study. All
      patients receive intramuscular injections of ALVAC-HIV (vCP 1452) and recombinant soluble
      gp160 MN/LAI-2 on Days 0, 30, 90, and 180. Patients are monitored for safety 30 minutes
      after each immunization and by telephone contact within 72 hours of each vaccination. In
      addition, each patient records adverse events in a diary. Patients have regular physical
      exams, pregnancy tests, and blood drawn for virologic and immunologic assessments. The
      induction of HIV-specific responses will be measured.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 19 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients may be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are HIV-positive.

          -  Have a viral load (amount of HIV in the blood) of less than 50 copies/ml.

          -  Have been taking anti-HIV drugs for at least 2 years.

          -  Are already participating in ongoing clinical trials at the Aaron Diamond AIDS
             Research Center.

          -  Are at least 19 years old.

          -  Practice abstinence or use 2 barrier methods of birth control, both men and women who
             are able to have children.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Patients will not be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Have HIV infection that is spreading through the body even though they are taking
             anti-HIV drugs.

          -  Are breast-feeding.

          -  Are pregnant.

          -  Are allergic to eggs and/or neomycin.

          -  Show evidence of poor immune responses.
      
