TITLE:
Liposomal Lurtotecan Plus Cisplatin in Treating Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors

CONDITION:
Head and Neck Cancer

INTERVENTION:
cisplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one chemotherapy drug may kill more tumor
      cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of liposomal lurtotecan plus cisplatin in
      treating patients who have advanced or metastatic solid tumors.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of
      lurtotecan liposome and cisplatin in patients with advanced solid tumors. II. Determine the
      toxicity profile, dose-limiting toxic effects, and the pharmacokinetics of this treatment
      regimen in this patient population. III. Determine any correlation between toxicity profile
      and pharmacokinetics of this treatment regimen in these patients. IV. Determine the
      objective tumor response to this treatment regimen in patients with measurable disease
      (previously untreated solid tumors) entered at the recommended phase II dose.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study of lurtotecan liposome.
      Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour followed by lurtotecan liposome IV over 30 minutes
      on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Once the total dose of cisplatin is reached, patients receive
      lurtotecan liposome alone. Patients achieving complete response (CR) continue therapy for 2
      courses after documentation of confirmed CR. Patients achieving partial response (PR)
      continue therapy until progression or for 2 courses after documentation of stable PR.
      Patients with stable disease continue therapy for a maximum of 6 courses. Cohorts of 3-6
      patients receive escalating doses of lurtotecan liposome until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is reached. The MTD is defined as the dose at which at least 2 of 6 patients
      experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, up to 10 patients with
      previously untreated solid tumors are treated at the recommended phase II dose (1 dose below
      the MTD). Patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 3 months for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20-25 patients will be accrued for this study within 12-15
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically or cytologically confirmed advanced and/or
        metastatic solid tumor refractory to standard curative therapy or for which no curative
        therapy exists Clinically or radiographically documented disease No tumor marker elevation
        as only evidence of disease No untreated brain or meningeal metastases Previously treated
        and stable CNS metastases allowed (i.e., no evidence of increasing disease by CT scan for
        at least 4 weeks) Recommended phase II dose portion of study: Previously untreated
        advanced and/or metastatic disease for which a cisplatin-based regimen is indicated (e.g.,
        non-small cell lung cancer, small cell lung cancer, ovarian, or head and neck cancer) At
        least one measurable lesion at least 20 mm by physical exam or x-ray or at least 10 mm by
        spiral CT scan

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: ECOG 0-2 Life expectancy:
        Not specified Hematopoietic: Absolute granulocyte count at least 1,500/mm3 Platelet count
        at least 100,000/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than upper limit of normal (ULN)
        AST/ALT no greater than 2.5 times ULN (5 times ULN if documented liver metastases) Renal:
        Creatinine no greater than ULN OR Creatinine clearance at least 60 mL/min Other: No
        greater than grade 1 neuropathy or ototoxicity No other prior or concurrent malignancy
        within the past 5 years except curatively treated basal or squamous cell skin cancer or
        cervical cancer (for recommended phase II dose) No active or uncontrolled infections No
        other serious illnesses or medical conditions that would preclude study No known
        hypersensitivity to systemic liposomal formulation or any drug chemically related to study
        drug Not pregnant or nursing Negative pregnancy test Fertile patients must use effective
        contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: See Chemotherapy Recovered from prior
        immunotherapy Chemotherapy: See Disease Characteristics No more than 1 prior chemotherapy
        regimen (adjuvant and/or metastatic) except for nonmyelosuppressive agents (e.g., signal
        transduction inhibitors or immunotherapy) At least 3 weeks since prior chemotherapy (6
        weeks for nitrosoureas and mitomycin and 4 weeks for carboplatin) and recovered At least 1
        year since prior high-dose chemotherapy with marrow or stem cell support No prior total
        cisplatin dose of more than 300 mg/m2 No prior chemotherapy (for recommended phase II
        dose) Endocrine therapy: Prior hormonal therapy allowed Radiotherapy: At least 4 weeks
        since prior radiotherapy and recovered No prior radiotherapy to more than 25% of bone
        marrow reserve, except for low-dose nonmyelosuppression Surgery: Not specified Other: At
        least 4 weeks since other prior experimental drugs or anticancer therapy and recovered No
        other concurrent investigational or anticancer therapy
      
