TITLE:
Pathophysiology of Chronic Wounds

CONDITION:
Healthy

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This study will compare blood from healthy volunteers and with wound fluid and tissue
      samples from patients with acute and chronic wounds enrolled in other NIH studies. Chronic
      wounds, such as venous leg ulcers, pressure sores, ischemic ulcers and diabetic foot ulcers,
      affect more than 4 million Americans each year and cost about $9 billion to treat. The
      nature of these wounds is not well understood and treatments are not always successful, for
      unknown reasons. Blood collected from healthy volunteers will be used to prepare a model for
      studying various processes involved in wound healing.

      Normal healthy volunteers 21 years of age and older who do not smoke and have no medical
      problems of the heart, bones, muscles, stomach, lungs, blood, or nervous system, do not have
      problems going to the bathroom, and have no infections may be eligible for this study.

      Participants will be interviewed briefly for information on their date of birth, gender,
      ethnic identity and medical history and will have a brief physical examination, including a
      check of height and weight, vital signs and heart and lung sounds. About 14 milliliters (2
      tablespoons) of blood will be drawn from the arm.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Chronic wounds are "any interruption on the continuity of the body's tissue that requires a
      prolonged time to heal, does not heal, or recurs" (Wysocki, 1996). Venous leg ulcers,
      pressure sores, ischemic ulcers, and diabetic foot ulcers are examples of chronic wounds.
      These kinds of wounds affect over 4 million Americans each year and cost over $9 billion to
      treat. The pathophysiology of these wounds is not well understood and therapies directed at
      healing these wounds are not always successful for unknown reasons. To better understand the
      pathophysiology of these wounds we propose to collect blood by venipuncture from healthy
      volunteers. Blood will be used to prepare blood and plasma derived serum for use in an in
      vitro wound healing model and Boyden chamber assays to study cell migration, adhesion,
      genetic expression, expression of cell surface receptors, and protein expression to
      construct a profile of various healing processes. This baseline data will be used for
      studying the effect of acute and chronic wound fluids on cell migration, adhesion, genetic
      expression, expression of cell surface receptor and protein expression in an in vitro wound
      model (protocols to be submitted for each patient population).
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION CRITERIA

        Healthy volunteers, 21 years of age and older.

        Male or female.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA

        Volunteers with known neurological, cardiac, endocrine, skeletal, gastrointestinal,
        immunological, neoplastic, pulmonary, urologic, hematologic, or infectious disease.

        Volunteers taking medications to treat a known diagnosed illness.

        Smoker.

        Children will not be used because chronic wounds are rarely seen in this population.
      
