TITLE:
S0004: Combination Chemotherapy Plus Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Limited-stage Small Cell Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Lung Cancer

INTERVENTION:
cisplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor
      cells. Combining more than one chemotherapy drug with radiation therapy may kill more tumor
      cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy plus radiation
      therapy in treating patients who have limited-stage small cell lung cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the feasibility of tirapazamine, cisplatin, and etoposide concurrently with
           radiotherapy in patients with limited stage small cell lung cancer.

        -  Determine the toxicities of this treatment regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the response rate in these patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to one of two induction therapy arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive induction chemotherapy consisting of low-dose tirapazamine IV
           over 1 hour and cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 29, and 36 and etoposide IV over
           1 hour on days 1-5 and 29-33. Patients also undergo radiotherapy concurrently with
           chemotherapy 5 consecutive days a week for 7 weeks beginning on day 1.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive induction chemotherapy consisting of high-dose tirapazamine,
           cisplatin, etoposide, and radiotherapy as in arm I.

      Patients with stable or responding disease then receive consolidation therapy consisting of
      tirapazamine IV over 1 hour and cisplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1 of weeks 11 and 14 and
      etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-3 of weeks 11 and 14.

      Patients are followed every 2 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients (25 per arm) will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed limited stage small cell lung cancer (SCLC)

          -  No malignant pericardial or pleural effusions, including any of the following:

               -  Cytologically positive effusions

               -  Exudative effusions not attributable to other etiologies

          -  No brain metastases

          -  Disease (measurable or non-measurable) must be present outside the area of prior
             surgical resection

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  Zubrod 0-1

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Absolute neutrophil count greater than 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count greater than 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  SGOT or SGPT no greater than 2 times ULN

          -  Alkaline phosphatase no greater than 2 times ULN

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than ULN OR

          -  Creatinine clearance at least 60 mL/min

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No symptomatic sensory neuropathy grade 1 or greater

          -  No other malignancy within past 5 years except adequately treated basal cell or
             squamous cell skin cancer, carcinoma in situ of the cervix, or other stage I or II
             cancer in complete remission

          -  No other medical illness that would preclude study participation

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  No prior biologic therapy for SCLC

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior systemic chemotherapy for SCLC

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No prior thoracic radiotherapy for SCLC

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 2 weeks since prior thoracic or other major surgery and recovered
      
