TITLE:
Paclitaxel Plus Carboplatin With or Without Topotecan in Treating Patients With Stage IIB, Stage III, or Stage IV Ovarian Epithelial Cancer

CONDITION:
Fallopian Tube Cancer

INTERVENTION:
carboplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells. It is
      not yet known if paclitaxel plus carboplatin is more effective with or without topotecan for
      ovarian epithelial cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of paclitaxel plus
      carboplatin with or without topotecan in treating patients who have stage IIB, stage III, or
      stage IV ovarian epithelial cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare survival of patients with stage IIB, III, or IV ovarian epithelial
      carcinoma after receiving treatment with paclitaxel and carboplatin with or without
      topotecan. II. Compare progression-free survival of these patients after receiving these
      treatment regimens. III. Compare the response rate and response duration in these patients
      treated with these regimens. IV. Determine the toxic effects of the combination of
      paclitaxel, carboplatin, and topotecan in these patients. V. Compare the toxic effects of
      these treatment regimens in these patients. VI. Compare quality of life of these patients
      treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center and stage (stage IIB and stage III optimally debulked to no greater
      than 1 cm residual tumor vs stage IV regardless of residual tumor or residual tumor greater
      than 1 cm). Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms. Arm I: Patients receive
      paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 0.5-1 hour on day 1 and topotecan IV over
      0.5 hour on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses (topotecan is
      administered for 4 courses only). Arm II: Patients receive paclitaxel and carboplatin as in
      arm I. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses. Quality of life is assessed before
      courses 1, 3, and 5 and at 3 weeks and 3 months after completion of treatment in both
      treatment arms; before courses 1 and 3 of topotecan in arm I; and at 6 months after
      completion of treatment in arm II. Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6
      months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 914 patients (457 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study over 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to 120 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed stage IIB, III, or IV ovarian epithelial
        carcinoma, fallopian tube, or extraovarian papillary serous carcinoma extending to the
        ovary No mixed epithelial/non-epithelial tumors (e.g., mixed Mullerian tumors) No tumors
        of low malignant potential (e.g., borderline tumors) No symptomatic brain metastases

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: ECOG 0-2 OR Karnofsky
        70-100% Life expectancy: More than 12 weeks Hematopoietic: Absolute neutrophil count at
        least 1,500/mm3 Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than 1.5
        times the upper limit of normal (ULN) Alkaline phosphatase no greater than 3 times ULN
        Renal: Creatinine no greater than 1.25 times ULN Estimated glomerular filtration rate at
        least 60 mL/min Cardiovascular: No history of congestive heart failure (even if medically
        controlled) No New York Heart Association class III or IV heart disease No myocardial
        infarction within the past 6 months No history of atrial or ventricular arrhythmias Other:
        No motor or sensory neurologic pathology or symptoms greater than grade 1 No active
        infection or other serious medical condition that would preclude study No prior allergy to
        drug containing Cremophor EL No dementia or significantly altered mental state that would
        preclude informed consent No complete bowel obstruction No other prior malignancy except
        curatively treated nonmelanomatous skin cancer or carcinoma in situ of the cervix Not
        pregnant or nursing Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: No concurrent immunotherapy No concurrent WBC
        transfusions Chemotherapy: No prior chemotherapy No other concurrent chemotherapy
        Endocrine therapy: No concurrent hormonal therapy Radiotherapy: No prior radiotherapy No
        concurrent radiotherapy Surgery: No more than 6 weeks since prior definitive laparotomy
        and recovered Other: No other concurrent antineoplastic agents No other concurrent
        investigational drugs
      
