TITLE:
Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage III or Stage IV Head and Neck Cancer

CONDITION:
Head and Neck Cancer

INTERVENTION:
Taxotere

SUMMARY:

      Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of docetaxel plus radiation therapy in treating
      patients who have stage III or stage IV head and neck cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of docetaxel when administered with concurrent
           boost radiotherapy in patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and
           neck previously treated with induction chemotherapy.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this treatment regimen in this patient population.

        -  Determine the efficacy of this treatment regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of docetaxel.

      Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour weekly for 4 weeks. Patients also undergo
      hyperfractionated radiotherapy daily, 5 days a week, for 4 weeks followed by radiotherapy
      alone twice daily for 2 weeks.

      Upon completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients not achieving complete response to induction
      chemotherapy undergo neck surgical dissection at 4-12 weeks following completion of
      radiotherapy.

      Cohorts of 3-5 patients receive escalating doses of docetaxel until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is reached. The MTD is the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 5 patients
      experience dose limiting toxicity. Additional patients are treated at the MTD.

      Patients are followed monthly for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 18-25 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Patient Eligibility:

          -  Pathology: Histologic documentation of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck
             or its variants (lymphoepithelioma, undifferentiated epidermoid carcinoma, etc.).

          -  Stage: Patients will be entered on this protocol after initial induction therapy, if,
             prior to the induction regimen, they were previously untreated Stage III or IV (MO)
             SCCHN. Evaluable disease during induction therapy is required.

             -- Required Prior therapy: Patients entered on this protocol will have received
             platinum/FUra based induction chemotherapy. They may have received a taxane as part
             of this plan. Patients treated with induction are eligible provided that they receive
             no more than three cycles of chemotherapy, but at least one cycle of chemotherapy,
             and are less then 7 weeks from the start of last cycle of induction therapy

          -  Other malignancies:

               -  Patients with previous head and neck cancer are ineligible, except patients who
                  were treated with surgery as the sole modality >2 years prior to study entry.

               -  Patients with concurrent malignancy of any site, except limited basal cell
                  carcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma of the skin or carcinoma in situ of the
                  cervix are ineligible.

               -  Patients with any non-SCCHN malignancy within 3 years of study entry, except
                  curatively treated basal cell carcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma of the skin
                  or carcinoma in situ of the cervix are ineligible.

          -  Other prior therapy: Patients who were previously treated with radiotherapy for SCCHN
             are not eligible. Patients treated with any form of prior chemotherapy, other than
             induction therapy described in section 3.21 within the last 5 years are not eligible.
             Hormonally treated patients are eligible.

          -  Performance: Patients must meet the following performance criteria:

               -  Performance status:  2 (ECOG). Complete recovery from previous diagnostic or
                  therapeutic procedures is required.

               -  Nutritional status: Adequate and nutritionally balanced enteral intake  1,800
                  kcal/day). Patients requiring intravenous alimentation as primary source of
                  calories are excluded from this study. Patients with persistent diarrhea are
                  ineligible. A PEG is required prior to initiation of radiation.

               -  Life expectancy: Longer than 3 months.

               -  Women of child bearing potential must not be pregnant by history or lactating at
                  the time of entry on this protocol and men and women of child bearing potential
                  must be requested to use an accepted and effective method of birth control
                  during therapy.

          -  Organ Function: Biochemical and hematological parameters (obtained within 2 weeks of
             study entry) as follows:

               -  Hepatic:

                    -  SGOT < 1.5 x ULN and Alkaline Phosphatase < 2.5 x ULN for entry.

                    -  Total Bilirubin = WNL and SGOT must be  2 x ULN as an isolated value.

                    -  SGPT  2.5 x ULN

               -  Hematologic:

                    -  WBC 3,000/mm3 or a normal absolute neutrophil count (ANC)  1000;

                    -  Platelet count  100,000/mm3

                    -  Hemoglobin  10 gm/d1 (transfusion to bring the hemoglobin to or above this
                       level is permitted if clinically indicated, however, transfusions should
                       not be used solely in order to meet eligibility criteria).

               -  Neurologic:

                  --- Peripheral neuropathy of any etiology must not exceed grade 2.

               -  Cardiovascular/Pulmonary:

                  --- No acute cardiac dysrhythmias or unstable cardiac condition such as angina.

               -  Other:

                  --- Lack of other serious illness or medical condition.

               -  Informed consent:

                  ---- Patients must give written informed consent.

               -  Follow-up:

                  --- All patients must be available for monthly evaluation and re-staging by the
                  physicians from the Head and Neck Cancer Clinic while on therapy.

               -  Patients with a history of severe hypersensitivity reaction to Taxotere or other
                  drugs formulated with polysorbate 80 will be exclude
      
