TITLE:
S9908: Glutamine in Treating Mucositis Caused by Radiation Therapy in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Cancer of the Mouth or Throat

CONDITION:
Cancer-related Problem/Condition

INTERVENTION:
glutamine

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Glutamine may be effective in decreasing side effects, such as inflammation of
      the mouth and throat, caused by radiation therapy. The effectiveness of glutamine for
      mucositis is not yet known.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to determine the effectiveness of glutamine in treating
      patients who develop mucositis following radiation therapy for newly diagnosed cancer of the
      mouth or throat.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of L-glutamine vs placebo, in terms of maximum mucositis toxic
           effects and worst reported mouth pain during and after high-dose radiotherapy, in
           patients with newly diagnosed, previously untreated squamous cell cancer of the oral
           cavity or oropharynx.

        -  Compare the duration of severe mucositis in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the radiotherapy delay in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare weight loss in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these two regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare patient-reported mouth pain success rate in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Determine the compliance of patients treated with this drug regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to concurrent cisplatin or carboplatin (yes vs no), concurrent
      fluorouracil (yes vs no), and presence of feeding tube (yes vs no). Patients are randomized
      to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Beginning 4 to 7 days prior to radiotherapy, patients receive oral L-glutamine 3
           times daily for 60-80 days. Patients receive concurrent high-dose radiotherapy for
           approximately 6 weeks.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo and high-dose radiotherapy as in arm I. In both
           arms, treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed for 2 weeks.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 158 patients (79 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 2.5 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 90 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Newly diagnosed, previously untreated squamous cell cancer of the oral cavity or
             oropharynx (T1-T4, any N, M0)

          -  Must be scheduled to receive high-dose radiotherapy

          -  Not concurrently receiving or planning to receive treatment on any other Southwest
             Oncology Group protocol

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 to 90

        Performance status:

          -  Zubrod 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No other malignancy within the past 5 years except adequately treated basal cell or
             squamous cell skin cancer, carcinoma in situ of the cervix, or stage I or II cancer
             currently in complete remission

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior chemotherapy

          -  Concurrent cisplatin, carboplatin, or fluorouracil allowed

          -  No other concurrent chemotherapy during study and for at least 3 weeks after study
             radiotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No concurrent amifostine during and for 2 weeks after study radiotherapy
      
