TITLE:
A Study of HIV-Disease Development in Aging

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Lopinavir/Ritonavir

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to better understand the relationship between age and HIV
      disease progression.

      This study will explore the possible relationship between age and HIV disease progression.
      Older age is an important risk factor for faster disease development, but older people may
      respond better to combination drug therapy. This relationship needs to be understood better.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Older age is an important risk factor for accelerated HIV-disease progression. However, the
      virologic response to highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) may be superior in older
      persons. A better understanding of the immunologic, virologic, and behavioral mechanisms
      that underlie these age-related differences may help to elucidate critical immune responses
      that are necessary to control the progression of HIV-disease.

      Patients are grouped according to age. Group A consists of patients between the ages of 13
      and 30 years. Group B consists of patients age 45 years or older. All patients receive
      open-label lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/RTV) plus emtricitabine (FTC) plus stavudine (d4T) for
      96 [AS PER AMENDMENT 06/04/02: 192] weeks. Study visits occur at pre-entry, entry, and Weeks
      4, 8, 12, 16, and 24 then every 12 weeks thereafter through Week 96 [AS PER AMENDMENT
      06/04/02: Week 192]. Clinical assessments, safety laboratory tests, CD4 cell count
      monitoring, lymphocyte phenotyping, and HIV-1 RNA determinations are performed routinely.
      Blood samples are stored for further immunology and virology studies. Patients may volunteer
      to participate in virology substudy A5020s and either immunology substudy A5016s or A5017s
      [AS PER AMENDMENT 06/04/02: Substudy A5017s has been eliminated.]
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients may be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are HIV-positive.

          -  Are between 13 and 30 years old (need consent of parent or guardian if under 18), or
             are more than 44 years of age.

          -  Have a viral load of more than 2000 copies/ml within 60 days of study entry.

          -  Have a CD4 cell count of less than 600 cells/mm3 within 60 days of study entry. (This
             reflects a change in the CD4 cell count requirement.)

          -  Agree to use effective methods of birth control (such as condoms) during and for 12
             weeks after the study.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Patients will not be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are pregnant or breast-feeding.

          -  Have an AIDS-related cancer (except Kaposi's sarcoma) requiring chemotherapy.

          -  Have hepatitis within 30 days of study entry.

          -  Have diarrhea (more than 3 liquid stools/day for at least 14 days) within 30 days of
             study entry.

          -  Are receiving chemotherapy or radiation treatment.

          -  Have taken antiretroviral drugs for more than 14 days.

          -  Have received an HIV vaccine within 30 days of study.

          -  Have a serious illness or infection within 14 days of the study.

          -  Have other serious conditions that might interfere with study participation.

          -  Have taken or plan to take certain other drugs that might affect the study results.
      
