TITLE:
Donepezil and Vitamin E to Prevent Side Effects Caused By Radiation Therapy to the Head in Patients Receiving Treatment for Small Cell Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Cognitive/Functional Effects

INTERVENTION:
vitamin E

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Donepezil and vitamin E may be able to decrease side effects caused by radiation
      therapy given to prevent brain metastases in patients with small cell lung cancer. It is not
      yet known if donepezil and vitamin E are effective in preventing side effects caused by
      radiation therapy to the head.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to determine the effectiveness of donepezil and vitamin
      E in preventing side effects caused by radiation therapy given to prevent brain metastases
      in patients who have small cell lung cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the interval between completion of cancer treatment that included prophylactic
           cranial irradiation and onset of cognitive decline in patients with small cell lung
           cancer (SCLC) treated with donepezil and vitamin E vs placebo.

        -  Determine the toxicity of donepezil and vitamin E in these patients.

        -  Determine whether preserved cognitive function favorably impacts quality of life in
           these patients.

        -  Determine the natural history of cognitive decline in these patients after cancer
           treatment.

        -  Determine whether genotypes of apolipoprotein E predict decline in cognitive function
           among patients at risk for treatment-associated dementia and whether these genotypes
           predict duration of disease-free survival among patients who have achieved complete
           response after treatment for SCLC.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Patients are
      stratified according to cognitive function (normal vs mild to moderate dysfunction vs severe
      dysfunction) and age (60 and under vs over 60).

      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral donepezil daily and vitamin E twice daily.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebos according to the same schedule as the study
           drugs in arm I.

      All patients begin treatment within 2 weeks after completion of prophylactic cranial
      irradiation. Treatment continues for a minimum of 1 month in the absence of disease
      progression, unacceptable toxicity, or a 3.0 point drop on the Mini Mental State Examination
      (MMSE) and/or a 5 point drop on the Blessed Dementia Scale.

      Cognition is assessed using the Blessed Dementia Scale and the MMSE at baseline and then
      every 3 months during study.

      Quality of life and depression are assessed at baseline and then every 3 months during
      study.

      Patients are followed every 6 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of small cell lung cancer (SCLC)

               -  Must meet one of the following conditions:

                    -  Enrolled no more than 4 weeks before initiation of prophylactic cranial
                       irradiation (PCI) OR

                    -  Enrolled no more than 10 days after initiation of PCI

               -  Limited or extensive stage SCLC with complete response (CR) outside chest
                  allowed

          -  Must have CR or minimal disease after completion of intended course of chemotherapy

          -  No disease progression since initiation of PCI

          -  No prior or concurrent CNS metastases

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 12 weeks

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 mg/dL

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2 times upper limit of normal

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No sick sinus syndrome or other symptomatic supraventricular conduction disorders
             even if symptoms currently controlled by antiarrhythmics

        Pulmonary:

          -  No history of asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease requiring chronic
             oxygen therapy

        Other:

          -  No medical or psychiatric condition that would increase risk

          -  No seizure disorder

          -  No ongoing alcohol abuse

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Chemotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No concurrent anticancer chemotherapy

        Other:

          -  No concurrent medications that would impair baseline cognitive function or are likely
             to be dose escalated over the next few months

          -  No other concurrent vitamin E
      
