TITLE:
Immunotoxin Therapy in Treating Patients With Advanced Cancer

CONDITION:
Cervical Cancer

INTERVENTION:
SS1(dsFv)-PE38 immunotoxin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Immunotoxins can locate tumor cells and kill them without harming normal cells.
      Immunotoxin therapy may be an effective treatment for advanced cancer.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of immunotoxins in treating patients who
      have advanced cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and toxic effects of SS1(dsFv)-PE38 immunotoxin in
           patients with advanced malignancies that express mesothelin.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the response in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine the plasma pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive SS1(dsFv)-PE38 immunotoxin IV continuously on days 1-10. Treatment repeats
      every 4 weeks for a maximum of 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of SS1(dsFv)-PE38 immunotoxin until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at
      which 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed malignancy, including one of the following:

               -  Malignant mesothelioma

               -  Ovarian epithelial carcinoma (mucinous or nonmucinous), including primary
                  peritoneal or fallopian tube carcinoma

                    -  Tumors that may have originated in the bowel (e.g., appendiceal carcinoma)
                       and involve the ovary

                    -  Ovarian cancers of other histology are eligible provided they express
                       mesothelin

               -  Pancreatic cancer

               -  Squamous cell lung cancer

               -  Squamous cell cancer of the head and neck

               -  Squamous cell cancer of the cervix

          -  Recurrent unresectable disease after prior standard anticancer therapy that was
             expected to prolong survival and improve quality of life OR unwilling to receive
             standard anticancer therapy

          -  At least 30% of initial or recurrent tumor cells positive (at least 1+) for
             mesothelin by immunohistochemistry

          -  Measurable or evaluable disease

          -  No known CNS or spinal cord involvement

          -  No clinically significant pericardial effusion

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 12 weeks

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 75,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  AST and ALT no greater than 2.5 times ULN

          -  Albumin at least 3.0 g/dL

          -  Hepatitis B and C negative

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than ULN OR

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2.0 mg/dL if creatinine clearance at least 50 mL/min

          -  Calcium no greater than ULN

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No New York Heart Association class II-IV heart disease

        Pulmonary:

          -  Oxygen saturation (SO_2) more than 92% on room air

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  HIV negative

          -  No detectable antibody to SS1(dsFv)-PE38

          -  No infection requiring parenteral antibiotics

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  At least 1 week since prior hematopoietic growth factor therapy

        Chemotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  At least 4 weeks since any prior antitumor therapy and recovered

          -  No other concurrent antitumor therapy
      
