TITLE:
Long Term Interferon for Patients Who Did Not Clear Hepatitis C Virus With Standard Treatment

CONDITION:
Chronic Hepatitis C

INTERVENTION:
Peginterferon alfa-2a + Ribavirin

SUMMARY:

      The HALT-C Trial is a National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases
      sponsored, randomized clinical trial of long-term use of Peginterferon alfa-2a (pegylated
      interferon) in patients who failed to respond to prior interferon treatment. All patients
      who enter the trial will be treated for 6 months with Peginterferon alfa-2a and Ribavirin.
      Patients who respond to this 6 month treatment will continue to be treated for an additional
      6 months.

      Patients who do not respond to this treatment will be eligible for the long-term maintenance
      phase of this study where patients will be randomly selected to be treated with
      Peginterferon alfa-2a or to discontinue treatment for 3.5 years. Patients in both arms of
      this study will be followed closely with quarterly study visits.

      The combination of peginterferon plus ribavirin has recently been approved by the FDA for
      treatment of chronic HCV. Patients who remain HCV-RNA positive after being treated for at
      least 6 months with peginterferon and ribavirin outside of this study may be eligible to
      directly enter the randomized portion of the HALT-C Trial.

      The HALT-C study is designed to determine if continuing interferon long-term over several
      years will suppress Hepatitis C virus, prevent progression to cirrhosis, prevent liver
      cancer and reduce the need for liver transplantation.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Age at entry at least 18 years.

          -  Positive for Hepatitis C.

          -  Previous treatment with any interferon or interferon and ribavirin for at least 3
             months.

          -  Documented non-response to treatment with interferon.

          -  A liver biopsy demonstrating significant liver scarring.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  No other liver disease.

          -  No unstable major medical diseases or conditions.

          -  No major complications of cirrhosis.

          -  No recent abuse of alcohol or illicit drugs.
      
