TITLE:
Oltipraz in the Prevention of Lung Cancer in People Who Smoke

CONDITION:
Lung Cancer

INTERVENTION:
oltipraz

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Chemoprevention therapy is the use of certain drugs to try to prevent the
      development of cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase I trial to study the effectiveness of oltipraz in preventing lung
      cancer in people who smoke.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the effect of oltipraz on the level of BP-7,8-diol-9,10-epoxide (BPDE) DNA
           adducts in the lung lining cells (macrophages and bronchial epithelial cells) of
           smokers.

        -  Determine the tolerability and toxicity of this treatment regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the effect of this treatment regimen on the level of macromolecule adducts in
           the blood (e.g., BPDE DNA, BPDE hemoglobin, and 8-hydroxy-deoxyguanine), oral lining
           cells (BPDE DNA), bladder lining cells (4-aminobiphenyl DNA), and lung macrophages
           (8-hydroxy-deoxyguanine) in these patients.

        -  Determine the effect of this treatment regimen on the change (decrease) in activation
           of NNK as measured by change (increase) in urinary NNAL plus NNAL glucuronide in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the effect of this treatment regimen on the oxidative state,
           glutathione-S-transferase activity, and superoxide dismutase 3 and phase II enzymes in
           the lungs and blood of these patients.

        -  Compare the changes in oxidative state and phase II enzymes with changes in adduct
           levels in the lungs and blood of these patients.

        -  Determine the correlation between oltipraz-induced changes in phase II enzymes and
           adduct formation with genotypic variation in glutathione-S-transferase isozymes in
           these patients.

        -  Compare the response to this treatment regimen in terms of oxidative state, phase II
           enzymes, and adduct formation in the lungs vs the blood in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to participating center. Patients are randomized to one of three treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive an oral placebo weekly.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive low-dose oral oltipraz weekly.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive high-dose oral oltipraz weekly. Treatment continues for 12
           weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed at 4 weeks.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 66 patients (22 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 21 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Current cigarette smokers

               -  At least 20 cigarettes a day

               -  No variation of more than 10 in the number of cigarettes smoked per day within
                  the past 3 months

               -  At least 10 years of smoking any amount

               -  Failed to stop smoking after at least one attempt to quit within the last 3
                  years

          -  Prior stage I non-small cell lung cancer allowed if surgically resected with at least
             a lobectomy

          -  No concurrent evidence of lung cancer

          -  Willing to undergo 2 bronchoscopies

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  CBC normal

          -  Hemostasis normal

        Hepatic:

          -  PT and PTT normal

        Renal:

          -  Blood chemistries normal

          -  Nonfasting glucose no greater than 200 mg/dL

          -  No active renal disease

          -  No urinary tract infection by urinalysis (trace protein allowed)

        Cardiovascular:

          -  EKG normal

          -  No coronary artery disease requiring continuous medication

        Pulmonary:

          -  Chest radiograph normal (postsurgical changes allowed)

          -  No acute or significant chronic abnormality

          -  FEV1 greater than 1.8 L or 75% predicted

          -  No chronic obstructive pulmonary disease requiring continuous medication

        Other:

          -  No known hypersensitivity or prior adverse reaction to oltipraz

          -  No inmates or prisoners

          -  No medical or psychological condition that would preclude study (e.g., acute
             psychosis)

          -  No prior malignancy except nonmelanomatous skin cancer, cervical dysplasia, or
             curatively treated stage I or II cancer of the head and neck

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception during and for 6 months after study

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  At least 3 months since prior potential chemoprevention agent (e.g., oltipraz,
             retinoids, or acetylcysteine)

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics
      
