TITLE:
Bone Marrow Transplantation in Treating Patients With Leukemia

CONDITION:
Graft Versus Host Disease

INTERVENTION:
anti-thymocyte globulin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Bone marrow transplantation may be able to replace immune cells that were
      destroyed by chemotherapy or radiation therapy used to kill cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase II/III trial to determine the effectiveness of bone marrow
      transplantation in treating patients who have leukemia.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare unrelated donor bone marrow transplantation using T-cell-depleted
      marrow versus unmodified marrow in adults and children with leukemia. II. Evaluate 2-year
      leukemia-free survival, primary and secondary graft failure, graft-versus-host disease,
      infection, and relapse in these patients. III. Assess the quality of life associated with
      T-cell-depleted versus unmodified, unrelated donor transplantation.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified by center.
      Patients receive myeloablative therapy according to diagnosis: those with acute lymphocytic
      leukemia and lymphoblastic lymphoma are treated with total body irradiation (TBI), with a
      testicular and chest wall boost as appropriate, followed by cyclophosphamide (CTX); patients
      with undifferentiated or biphenotypic leukemia or with acute or chronic myelocytic leukemia
      are treated with CTX followed by TBI. Patients are then randomly assigned to receive
      non-T-cell-depleted, unrelated marrow versus T-cell-depleted, unrelated marrow. The modified
      marrow is depleted of T-lymphocytes by counterflow elutriation and positively selected for
      CD34 cells. Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis with cyclosporine and methotrexate
      is given to the unmodified marrow group. Patients who receive modified marrow are given
      antithymocyte globulin (or methylprednisolone) for graft rejection prophylaxis before
      transplantation and cyclosporine and methylprednisolone for GVHD prophylaxis after
      transplantation.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 45 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Acute myelocytic leukemia with or without history of
        myelodysplastic syndrome Not in first complete remission (i.e., greater than 5% blasts in
        marrow) with t(8;21), t(15;17), or 16q abnormality unless failure on first-line induction
        therapy Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) in one of the following categories: In second or
        third complete remission (CR) High-risk ALL in first CR, with high risk defined as:
        Hypodiploidy OR pseudodiploidy with t(9;22), t(4;11), or t(8;14) Failure to achieve CR
        after 4 weeks of induction therapy Elevated WBC at presentation, i.e.: Greater than
        100,000 in patients aged 6 to 12 months Greater than 200,000 in patients aged 1 to 20
        years Greater than 20,000 in patients aged 21 to 44 years Chronic myelogenous leukemia not
        in blast crisis (i.e., no greater than 30% promyelocytes plus blasts in bone marrow) Stage
        IV lymphoblastic lymphoma Undifferentiated or biphenotypic leukemia Unrelated donor
        available Patients aged 35 and younger: HLA-A, and -B serologic identity and HLA-DRB1
        identity by high-resolution DNA typing OR Single HLA-A or -B serologic mismatch with DRB1
        identity by high-resolution DNA typing OR HLA-A and -B serologic identity with single DRB1
        mismatch by high- or low- resolution DNA typing Patients aged 36 to 44: HLA-A and -B
        serologic identity and HLA-DRB1 identity by high-resolution DNA typing The following
        exclude: Relapse 12 months after discontinuing therapy in patients aged 1 to 10 years who
        are in second remission Active central nervous system or leukemic skin involvement
        Requirement for additional mediastinal irradiation

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: Under 46 Performance status: Karnofsky 70-100% Lansky
        50-100% Hematopoietic: See Disease Characteristics Hepatic: Bilirubin less than 2.5 mg/dL
        AST less than 3 times normal Renal: Creatinine normal OR Creatinine clearance greater than
        60 mL/min Cardiovascular: Asymptomatic OR Resting LVEF greater than 40% and improves with
        exercise Pulmonary: Asymptomatic OR DLCO greater than 45% of predicted (corrected for
        hemoglobin) Other: HIV negative No uncontrolled viral, bacterial, or fungal infection Not
        pregnant or nursing

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: No prior bone marrow transplantation No prior radiotherapy that
        precludes total body irradiation
      
