TITLE:
Problems Associated With the Use of Anti-HIV Drugs in HIV-Infected Pregnant Women

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to find out if HIV-infected pregnant women who take protease
      inhibitors (PIs) are more likely to have blood sugar problems than those who do not take
      PIs.

      HIV-infected people generally are treated with a combination of different types of anti-HIV
      drugs, 1 of which is usually a PI. The same holds true for pregnant women, but not much is
      known about the use of these drugs in pregnancy. Blood sugar and liver problems caused by
      anti-HIV drugs in nonpregnant patients are well known but their effects in pregnancy are
      not. Also, certain physical changes brought about by pregnancy may affect the way drugs are
      handled in the body. There remains a need for further study into the use of anti-HIV drugs
      during pregnancy and their effect on the safety of the mother and baby.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The dramatic impact of potent combination antiretroviral therapies on the course of HIV
      disease has made the use of PIs routine in the care of HIV-1-infected individuals.
      Combination therapy likewise has become the standard of care in pregnant individuals, even
      though information on use of these drugs during human pregnancy is limited. There are no
      published prospective evaluations of toxicities experienced by pregnant women on
      PI-containing antiretroviral regimens, despite findings of metabolic disturbances of
      glucose, fatty acids, and cholesterol, as well as lactic acidosis/hepatic steatosis in
      nonpregnant individuals treated with antiretrovirals. Gastrointestinal (GI) side effects
      also are well documented in nonpregnant individuals treated with PIs, but have not been
      systematically evaluated in pregnancy. In addition, the physiologic changes brought about by
      pregnancy may influence the pharmacokinetics, safety, and side effects of antiretroviral
      drugs. There remains a need for further evaluation of the use of antiretrovirals during
      pregnancy and their impact on maternal, fetal, and infant safety.

      Patients are stratified according to whether or not they are on a PI-containing
      antiretroviral regimen and the number of weeks of gestation (26 weeks or less versus greater
      than 26 weeks). Patients are followed at 8-week intervals from the time of entry until
      delivery or pregnancy termination, with an additional visit at 12 weeks after delivery or
      pregnancy termination. All infants born to study participants are evaluated at the time of
      delivery (anthropometrics and HIV DNA PCR) and are seen again at the mothers' 12-week
      post-delivery visit. Glucose tolerance testing and other metabolic studies are performed
      serially during pregnancy and again postpartum. This is an observational study and drugs are
      not supplied. Patients receiving antiretroviral therapy must obtain their own medications.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients may be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are HIV-positive.

          -  Are female and 13 years of age or older.

          -  Are between 20 and 34 weeks pregnant at study entry.

          -  Had an ultrasound performed at 16 or more weeks of pregnancy.

          -  Have consent of a parent or guardian if under 18 years of age. The father of the
             baby, if available, also must give consent.

          -  Have taken the same anti-HIV drugs, including a PI, during the 8 weeks just before
             study entry. If not taking a PI or any anti-HIV drug, must not have taken a PI during
             the 8 weeks just before study entry. Patients must carry on this way for the entire
             study.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Patients will not be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Have diabetes. Patients who have had diabetes caused by pancreas problems or steroid
             use in the past, but now have normal blood sugar without having to take drugs or
             special diets, are allowed. Patients who have had blood sugar problems in a past
             pregnancy also are allowed.

          -  Had a serious infection or medical condition within 30 days before study entry.

          -  Are enrolled in another study which requires a lot of blood tests.

          -  Take, or have taken in the 6 weeks before study entry, any of the following drugs:
             hormones (growth hormone, testosterone, or steroids), thalidomide, interleukins or
             interferons, efavirenz, hydroxyurea, drugs to control blood sugar, and anti-cancer
             drugs.

          -  Take, or have taken in the year before study entry, steroids, e.g., prednisone, for
             more than 14 days in any 3-month period. Inhaled steroids and steroid
             creams/ointments are allowed.

          -  Take, or have taken in the 30 days before study entry, PIs with lovastatin or
             simvastatin (2 drugs that lower the amount of fat in the blood).

          -  Have an ultrasound showing a major abnormality in the baby.

          -  Have problems with their pregnancy and/or are expecting more than 1 baby.

          -  Abuse drugs or alcohol.
      
