TITLE:
Emtricitabine Given Once A Day With Other Anti-HIV Drugs in Children With HIV

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Lopinavir/Ritonavir

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to see if emtricitabine is safe in children infected with HIV
      and to determine the best dose.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Children are placed into 1 of 4 treatment groups based on age: Group 1, 3 months to 24
      months; Group 2, 25 months to 6 years; Group 3, 7 years to 12 years; Group 4, 13 years to 17
      years. They receive baseline evaluations. Antiretroviral-naive patients receive
      emtricitabine plus stavudine plus lopinavir/ritonavir. Antiretroviral-experienced patients
      replace lamivudine with emtricitabine. Patients return to the clinic for follow-up visits at
      Weeks 2 and 4 and then every 4 weeks until Week 48. Safety is evaluated using adverse
      events, which are reviewed at every clinic visit. Clinical laboratory data and full-profile
      pharmacokinetics of emtricitabine are evaluated at some visits. After the Week 48 study
      evaluations are completed, individual patients may continue to receive study medication (as
      provided by the sponsor) until commercially available, if certain criteria are met.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 3 Months to 17 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Children may be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are at least 3 months old and no older than 17 years of age. This is the age the
             child needs to be at the time they begin the study.

          -  Are HIV positive.

          -  Weigh more than 5.5 pounds. A newborn child must have reached at least 38 weeks of
             gestation.

          -  Have or have not taken anti-HIV drugs. Those that have not must have a viral load
             between 5,000 and 500,000 copies/ml at screening. Those that have must have been
             taking anti-HIV drugs, including lamivudine, for at least 3 months and have a viral
             load of no more than 400 copies/ml at screening.

          -  Have a CD4 count of more than 200 cells/mm3.

          -  Have written consent from parent or guardian.

          -  Are willing to use effective birth control during the study and for 1 month after the
             last dose of emtricitabine, if sexually active.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Children will not be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are pregnant or breast-feeding.

          -  Cannot follow the visit or dosing schedule or are not available for 1 year.

          -  Have taken experimental drugs or vaccines (except for emivirine and experimental
             forms of approved drugs) within 30 days of study start.

          -  Have nerve damage in their arms or legs.

          -  Have trouble eating or taking drugs.

          -  Have serious diarrhea within 30 days before study entry.

          -  Have had any serious illness within 30 days of study screening. Any treatment must
             have been finished 14 days before study entry.

          -  Have had an AIDS-related (opportunistic) disease within 12 months of screening.

          -  Are being treated for tuberculosis.

          -  Have had pancreatitis.

          -  Require certain drugs.
      
