TITLE:
Nerve Damage in Patients With HIV Infection Who Have Been Treated With Anti-HIV Drugs

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to find out what might increase nerve damage in people with HIV
      who have taken drugs for treatment of HIV disease. Another purpose is to see if nerve exams
      are done correctly before clinical research sites enroll HIV-infected patients.

      Nerve damage is common in patients with HIV infection and can cause serious problems. The
      factors that place patients at risk are not well understood. This study will examine these
      factors in patients with advanced HIV infection and who have been taking anti-HIV drugs.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Neurological complications in HIV infection are common and are significant sources of
      mortality and morbidity. The associated risk factors have not been clearly defined. Several
      studies have patients who are suited for analysis of peripheral neuropathy and can address
      the important clinical question of when a subject with asymptomatic neuropathy is most at
      risk for progressing to painful neuropathy. Some patients in this population with advanced
      HIV disease will likely have asymptomatic peripheral neuropathy at baseline, and will
      present an excellent opportunity for prospective study. Detailed quantitative assessments
      will be carried out to determine the incidence and course of peripheral neuropathy in this
      population. Risk factors for the development of new peripheral neuropathy, worsening of
      existing neuropathy, and progression to symptomatic peripheral neuropathy, such as CD4+ cell
      counts, HIV-1 viral load, and prior nucleoside analogue use, will be evaluated. The
      potential additive neurotoxic effects of hydroxyurea exposure in this population can also be
      analyzed.

      HIV-infected patients are characterized for the presence or absence of neuropathy at [AS PER
      AMENDMENT 03/05/02: screening], baseline, Week 24, and Week 48. Entry variables are analyzed
      to determine predictors of progression from asymptomatic to symptomatic neuropathy or for
      worsening of symptomatic neuropathy. HIV-uninfected control volunteers have 1 visit [AS PER
      AMENDMENT 03/05/02: or 2 visits] for nerve conduction and Quantitative Sensory Testing (QST)
      evaluations to demonstrate proficiency with the testing methods prior to the enrollment of
      HIV-infected patients. HIV-infected patients are evaluated with the components of the Total
      Neuropathy Score (TNS) which includes signs (motor function, sensory function, and
      reflexes), symptoms (motor symptoms and sensory symptoms), QST (CASE IV - vibratory,
      cooling, and heat pain thresholds), and nerve conduction studies (sural nerve and peroneal
      nerve). Other evaluations include the Gracely Pain Scale and Visual Analog Scale pain
      diaries, paired skin biopsies from the right thigh and distal leg (total of 2), and
      peripheral blood lymphocyte analysis for quantitation of mitochondrial DNA content at entry
      and final study visit.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Control volunteers will be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are HIV negative.

          -  Are at least 18 years old.

        Patients will be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are HIV positive.

          -  Are at least 13 years old and can provide written consent from parent or guardian if
             under 18 years of age.

          -  Have taken anti-HIV drugs for at least 15 straight weeks any time in the past.

          -  Have a CD4 count of less than 300 cells/mm3.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Control volunteers will not be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Have any nerve-related problems.

          -  Have diabetes and nerve damage related to diabetes.

          -  Have long-term illness the doctor feels would interfere with the study.

        Patients will not be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Have had spinal surgery.

          -  Have taken insulin or oral hypoglycemic products for diabetes mellitus within 30 days
             prior to study entry. Dietary control for diabetes is allowed.

          -  Have nerve damage related to diabetes.

          -  Have a nerve condition unrelated to HIV infection or antiretroviral therapy.

          -  Have alcohol-related medical complications within 6 months of study entry.

          -  Have vitamin B12 levels of less than 200 pg/ml or a history of vitamin B12
             deficiency.

        This study has been changed to modify the exclusion criteria. Earlier versions did not
        include some of these exclusion criteria.
      
