TITLE:
3-AP Plus Cisplatin in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Adenocarcinoma of the Esophagus or Gastroesophageal Junction

CONDITION:
Adenocarcinoma of the Esophagus

INTERVENTION:
triapine

SUMMARY:

      Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as 3-AP and cisplatin, work in different ways to stop tumor
      cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. 3-AP may help cisplatin kill more cancer
      cells by making them more sensitive to the drug. This phase II trial is studying how well
      giving 3-AP together with cisplatin works in treating patients with recurrent or metastatic
      adenocarcinoma of the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the objective response rate in patients with recurrent or metastatic
      adenocarcinoma of the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction treated with 3-AP (Triapine)
      and cisplatin.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients. II. Determine the duration of
      response and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      III. Determine the palliative benefits with regard to dysphagia in patients treated with
      this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive 3-AP (Triapine) IV over 2 hours on days 1-4. Patients also receive
      cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on days 2 and 3 before 3-AP infusion. Treatment repeats every
      21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed for up to 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 19-39 patients will be accrued for this study within 20
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the esophagus or
             gastroesophageal junction

               -  Metastatic or recurrent disease

          -  Measurable disease

               -  At least 1 unidimensionally measurable lesion  20 mm by conventional techniques
                  OR  10 mm by spiral CT scan

               -  Outside prior irradiation port

          -  No known brain metastases

          -  Performance status - ECOG 0-2

          -  Performance status - Karnofsky 50-100%

          -  More than 6 months

          -  Absolute neutrophil count  1,500/mm^3

          -  WBC  3,000/mm ^3

          -  Platelet count  100,000/mm^3

          -  AST and ALT  2.5 times upper limit of normal

          -  Bilirubin normal

          -  Creatine normal

          -  Creatinine clearance  50 mL/min

          -  No prior myocardial infarction

          -  No unstable angina

          -  No cardiac arrhythmia

          -  No uncontrolled congestive heart failure

          -  No pulmonary disease requiring supplemental oxygen

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception during and for 3 months after study
             participation

          -  No glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency (for patients of African,
             Asian, or Mediterranean origin)

          -  No other concurrent uncontrolled illness

          -  No active or ongoing infection

          -  No active second malignancy

          -  No prior allergic reaction to compounds of similar chemical or biological composition
             to 3-AP or other study agents

          -  No psychiatric illness or social situation that would preclude study compliance

          -  At least 1 year since prior platinum-derivative agents

          -  No prior chemotherapy for metastatic or recurrent esophageal cancer

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 2 weeks since prior radiotherapy and recovered

          -  No other concurrent anticancer therapy

          -  No other concurrent investigational agents

          -  No concurrent combination antiretroviral therapy for HIV-positive patients
      
