TITLE:
ABI-007 in Treating Patients With Chemotherapy-Nave Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Lung Cancer

INTERVENTION:
paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as ABI-007, work in different ways to stop tumor
      cells from dividing so they stop growing or die.

      PURPOSE: This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of ABI-007 and to
      see how well it works in treating patients with stage IV non-small cell lung cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose-limiting toxicity of paclitaxel
           (albumin-stabilized Nanoparticle formulation) (ABI-007) in patients with
           chemotherapy-nave stage IV non-small cell lung cancer.

        -  Determine the antitumor activity of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the safety and tolerability of this drug in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the time to disease progression in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine duration of response in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine survival of patients treated with this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, dose-escalation study.

        -  Phase I: Patients receive paclitaxel (albumin-stabilized Nanoparticle formulation)
           (ABI-007) IV on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of ABI-007 until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive ABI-007 as above at the MTD (determined in phase I).
           Patients are followed monthly for 6 months and then every 3 months for 1.5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 64 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed stage IV non-small cell lung cancer

               -  Evidence of inoperable local recurrence or metastasis

                    -  Bone metastases or other nonmeasurable disease may not be only evidence of
                       metastasis

          -  Measurable disease documented radiographically

          -  No evidence of active brain metastases or leptomeningeal involvement

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  ECOG 0-1 OR

          -  Karnofsky 80-100%

        Life expectancy

          -  More than 12 weeks

        Hematopoietic

          -  Absolute neutrophil count  1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count  100,000/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin  9 g/dL

        Hepatic

          -  AST and ALT  2.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  Bilirubin normal

          -  Alkaline phosphatase  2.5 times ULN (unless due to bone metastases and there is no
             radiologic evidence of hepatic metastases)

        Renal

          -  Creatinine  1.5 mg/dL

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective barrier contraception for 1 month before and
             during study participation

          -  No prior allergy or hypersensitivity to study drug

          -  No other concurrent active malignancy

          -  No pre-existing peripheral neuropathy grade 1 or greater

          -  No other concurrent clinically significant illness

          -  No concurrent serious medical risk factor involving any of the major organ systems
             that would preclude study participation

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  No prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease

          -  More than 4 weeks since prior cytotoxic chemotherapy

          -  No concurrent doxorubicin

          -  No other concurrent taxanes

          -  No concurrent anthracyclines

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  At least 3 weeks since prior radiotherapy to a major bone marrow-containing area

          -  More than 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy except to a non-target lesion

               -  Prior radiotherapy to a target lesion allowed provided there has been clear
                  progression of the lesion since completion of radiotherapy

        Surgery

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  Prior epidermal growth factor-targeted therapy allowed

          -  More than 4 weeks since prior investigational drugs

          -  No concurrent enrollment in another clinical trial in which investigational drugs are
             administered or investigational procedures are performed

          -  No concurrent treatment with any of the following:

               -  Ritonavir

               -  Saquinavir

               -  Indinavir

               -  Nelfinavir

          -  No concurrent anticonvulsants

          -  No other concurrent anticancer drugs

          -  No other concurrent investigational drugs
      
