TITLE:
Carboplatin, Vincristine, and Temozolomide in Treating Children With Progressive and/or Symptomatic Low-Grade Glioma

CONDITION:
Brain Tumor

INTERVENTION:
carboplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin, vincristine, and temozolomide,
      work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Giving
      more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: This pilot study is studying giving carboplatin and vincristine together with
      temozolomide in treating children with progressive and/or symptomatic low-grade glioma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the feasibility and toxicity of an induction and maintenance regimen
           comprising carboplatin, vincristine, and temozolomide in children with progressive
           and/or symptomatic low-grade gliomas.

      Secondary

        -  Determine response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine 3-year progression-free survival and overall survival of patients treated
           with this regimen.

        -  Correlate response and progression-free survival with the genomic profile of tumors in
           patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 15, and
           22; vincristine IV on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36; and oral temozolomide on days
           43-47. Four weeks after the completion of induction therapy, patients achieving stable
           or responding disease proceed to maintenance therapy.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Patients receive carboplatin and temozolomide as in induction
           therapy and vincristine IV on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 10 weeks for a
           total of 6 courses in the absence of disease progression.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months
      for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30-50 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 10 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed progressive and/or symptomatic low-grade glioma, including
             any of the following:

               -  WHO grade I or II astrocytoma

               -  Grade I or II oligodendrogliomas

               -  Mixed oligodendrogliomas

               -  Gangliogliomas

          -  Measurable disease

          -  Progressive and/or symptomatic supratentorial or spinal cord tumors that cannot be
             removed for anatomical reasons are allowed

          -  Optic pathway tumors allowed provided there is evidence of progressive disease by MRI
             and/or symptoms of deteriorating vision, progressive hypothalamic/pituitary
             dysfunction, or diencephalic syndrome

          -  Dorsally exophytic brainstem gliomas that were previously resected more than 50% are
             allowed provided the residual tumor shows progression (with or without symptoms)

          -  No diffuse brain stem tumors

          -  No type 1 neurofibromatosis

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  10 and under

        Performance status

          -  ECOG 0-2

          -  Lansky 50-100%

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Hemoglobin  8.0 gm/dL

          -  Absolute neutrophil count  1,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count  100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin  1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  ALT < 2.5 times ULN

        Renal

          -  Creatinine clearance or radioisotope glomerular filtration rate  70 mL/min OR

          -  Creatinine  0.8 mg/dL (age 5 and under) OR  1.0 mg/dL (age 6 to10)

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception during and for 2 months after study
             participation

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  No concurrent immunomodulating agents

        Chemotherapy

          -  No other concurrent anticancer chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Prior corticosteroids allowed

          -  No concurrent corticosteroids except for the treatment of increased intracranial
             pressure

        Radiotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Surgery

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  Prior surgery allowed

        Other

          -  No other prior therapy
      
