TITLE:
Efficacy of Pegamotecan (PEG-Camptothecin) in Localized or Metastatic Cancer of the Stomach or Gastroesophageal Junction

CONDITION:
Cancer of Stomach

INTERVENTION:
Pegamotecan

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of pegamotecan
      (PEG-camptothecin) in patients with pathologically-diagnosed locally advanced or metastatic
      adenocarcinoma of the stomach or gastroesophageal junction who have relapsed or progressed
      following one prior chemotherapy treatment regimen.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Pathologically confirmed diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the stomach or
             gastroesophageal junction.

          -  Disease measurable in at least one dimension.

          -  Target tumors outside of prior radiation field(s).

          -  An Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance scale score of 0 or 1

          -  Adequate hematologic profile, as determined by hemoglobin, platelet, and neutrophil
             count.

          -  Adequate renal function, as determined by serum creatinine and serum albumin
             measurements.

          -  Adequate liver function, as determined by total bilirubin and transaminases levels.
             Transaminases may be <= 5.0x ULN if due to metastatic disease in the liver.

          -  Fully recovered from prior surgery.

          -  No history of hemorrhagic cystitis.

          -  No microscopic hematuria (>10 RBC/hpf) unless documented to be due to an infection or
             non-bladder origin.

          -  Capable of understanding the protocol requirements and risks and providing written
             informed consent.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Concurrent serious medical illness unrelated to tumor within the past 6 months.

          -  Known chronic infectious disease, such as AIDS or hepatitis (screening for hepatitis
             and HIV will not be performed).

          -  Positive screening pregnancy test or is breast-feeding.

          -  Female or male subject of reproductive capacity who is unwilling to use methods
             appropriate to prevent pregnancy during the course of this study.

          -  Receiving concurrent chemotherapy, investigational agents, radiotherapy, surgery, or
             has received wide field radiation within the previous 4 weeks.

          -  History of another malignancy (except basal and squamous cell carcinomas of the skin
             and carcinoma in situ of the cervix) within the last 5 years.

          -  Known or clinically suspected brain metastases.

          -  Received more than one prior regimen of chemotherapy for locally advanced or
             metastatic adenocarcinoma of the stomach or GE junction.

          -  Received prior neoadjuvant and/or adjuvant cytotoxic chemotherapy

          -  Received any investigational drug within the last 30 days.

          -  Not fully recovered from any prior, and from any reversible side effects related to
             the administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy, investigational agents, or radiation
             therapy.

          -  Prior treatment with a camptothecin analog.
      
