TITLE:
Doxorubicin and Strontium-89 With or Without Celecoxib in Treating Patients With Progressive Androgen-Independent Prostate Cancer and Bone Metastases

CONDITION:
Metastatic Cancer

INTERVENTION:
Celecoxib

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as doxorubicin, work in different ways to stop
      tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Strontium-89 may relieve bone pain
      caused by prostate cancer. Celecoxib may stop the growth of cancer by stopping blood flow to
      the tumor and by blocking the enzymes necessary for tumor cell growth. Combining doxorubicin
      and strontium-89 with celecoxib may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: This randomized phase II trial is studying celecoxib together with doxorubicin and
      strontium-89 to see how well they work compared to doxorubicin and strontium-89 alone in
      treating patients with progressive androgen-independent prostate cancer and bone metastases.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare time to prostate-specific antigen progression in patients with progressive
           androgen-independent prostate cancer and bone metastases treated with doxorubicin and
           strontium chloride Sr 89 with or without celecoxib.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to extent of bone
      metastases on bone scan (> 20 lesions vs  20 lesions) and quality of response (i.e.,
      decline of the prostate-specific antigen from baseline) to prior induction chemotherapy (
      80% vs < 80%). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive doxorubicin IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and
           strontium chloride Sr 89 IV on day 1. Patients also receive oral celecoxib twice daily
           in the absence of disease progression.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive doxorubicin and strontium chloride Sr 89 as in arm I.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 70 patients (35 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 18 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of androgen-independent prostate cancer

               -  Osteoblastic metastases

               -  No predominant visceral metastases

          -  Progressive disease after response to prior induction chemotherapy (prostate-specific
             antigen decline of at least 50% from baseline after 16 weeks of treatment)

          -  No symptomatic lymphadenopathy (i.e., scrotal or pedal edema)

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  Any age

        Performance status

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic

          -  Not specified

        Renal

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  Adequate physiologic reserves

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  No prior radionuclide therapy

        Surgery

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  No more than 3 prior cytotoxic treatments

          -  More than 6 months since prior celecoxib or rofecoxib
      
