TITLE:
Nerve-Sparing Radical Prostatectomy With or Without Nerve Grafting Followed by Standard Therapy for Erectile Dysfunction in Treating Patients With Localized Prostate Cancer

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
Alprostadil (E1)

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy with nerve grafting followed by standard
      therapies for erectile dysfunction may be effective in helping patients with prostate cancer
      improve sexual satisfaction and quality of life. It is not yet known whether erectile
      dysfunction therapy and nerve-sparing prostatectomy are more effective with or without nerve
      grafting.

      PURPOSE: This randomized phase II trial is studying nerve grafting and standard therapy to
      see how well they work compared to standard therapy alone in treating erectile dysfunction
      in patients undergoing nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy for localized prostate cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of erectile dysfunction rehabilitation and unilateral cavernous
           nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy with versus without unilateral autologous
           interposition sural nerve grafting in patients with clinically localized prostate
           cancer.

        -  Compare potency rates in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare erection quality in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare time to return of spontaneous erectile activity in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the feasibility of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare quality of life and sexual satisfaction in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare changes in penile erectile length and circumference in patients treated with
           these regimens.

        -  Compare the relative morbidity of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo unilateral cavernous nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy with
           unilateral autologous interposition sural nerve grafting.

      Beginning 6 weeks after surgery, patients undergo erectile dysfunction rehabilitation
      comprising any of the following: oral sildenafil (as occasion requires), use of vacuum
      erection device over 10 minutes once daily, intracavernous Triplemix (prostaglandin E1,
      papaverine, and phentolamine) injected twice weekly, or MUSE (suppository in urethra for
      erections) therapy. Erectile dysfunction rehabilitation may continue for up to 2 years or
      until return of adequate spontaneous erectile activity.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo unilateral cavernous nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy
           (without sural nerve grafting) and erectile dysfunction rehabilitation as in arm I.

      In both arms, treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life and sexual history are assessed at baseline, at 6 weeks postoperatively, at
      4, 8, 12, and 16 months, and then every 4 months for 2 years or until return of spontaneous
      erectile activity.

      Patients are followed every 4 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 200 patients (120 for arm I and 80 for arm II) will be accrued
      for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: N/A to 65 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Patient must be a candidate for a unilateral nerve sparing radical retropubic
             prostatectomy. a) Gleason score 7 or less in the cores on the side to be spared

          2. Patient must have no discernable preoperative erectile dysfunction, defined as the
             ability to have successful penetration on at least 75% of attempts.

          3. Patient must be </= 65 years of age at the time of study enrollment.

          4. Patient must have no peripheral neuropathy precluding procurement of a sural nerve
             graft

          5. Patient must have no significant psychiatric illness or demonstrable vasculogenic
             source of impotence.

          6. No prior history of pelvic irradiation or androgen deprivation therapy (LHRH agonists
             or anti-androgens)

        Exclusion Criteria:
      
