TITLE:
Neoadjuvant Docetaxel in Treating Women With Newly Diagnosed Breast Cancer

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
pegfilgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel, work in different ways to stop
      tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Giving a chemotherapy drug before
      surgery may shrink the tumor so that it can be removed.

      PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well neoadjuvant docetaxel works in treating
      women who are undergoing surgery for breast cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Correlate baseline and change in apoptosis and proliferation with clinical and
           pathological response to neoadjuvant docetaxel followed by surgery in women with newly
           diagnosed breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Correlate baseline and change in fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission tomography
           uptake with clinical and pathological response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate baseline and change in gene expression profiles with clinical and
           pathological response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate baseline and change in tumor and serum proteomic patterns with clinical and
           pathological response in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

        -  Neoadjuvant chemotherapy: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1 and
           pegfilgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on day 2. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 4
           courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Surgery: Within 2-4 weeks after the completion of 4 courses of docetaxel, patients
           undergo breast-conserving surgery or a mastectomy at the discretion of the treating
           surgeon. Patients may receive additional chemotherapy prior to surgery at the
           discretion of the treating physician.

        -  Adjuvant chemotherapy: Patients receive adjuvant chemotherapy at the discretion of the
           treating physician.

        -  Radiotherapy: Patients undergo radiotherapy after the completion of all chemotherapy at
           the discretion of the treating physician.

        -  Hormonal therapy: Patients with estrogen- and/or progesterone-positive tumors receive
           hormonal therapy after the completion of chemotherapy and all local therapies at the
           discretion of the treating physician.

      Patients are followed every 6 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed infiltrating carcinoma of the breast

               -  Unresected clinical stage T1c, T2, T3, or T4 lesion, any N

          -  Newly diagnosed disease

               -  Diagnostic mammogram and an ultrasound of the affected breast within 3 months
                  before study entry

               -  Mammogram of the contralateral breast within 6 months before study entry

          -  Clinically measurable disease

          -  Hormone receptor status:

               -  Immunohistochemical staining for estrogen and progesterone and HER2/neu
                  receptors must be obtained on initial diagnostic material

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Sex

          -  Female

        Menopausal status

          -  Not specified

        Performance status

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin at least 8 g/dL

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 times normal

        Renal

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 times normal

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No medical condition that would put the patient at unnecessary risk of potentially
             serious complications during study participation

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  No prior chemotherapy for current breast cancer

        Endocrine therapy

          -  At least 1 month since prior tamoxifen or raloxifene for breast cancer prevention

          -  No prior endocrine therapy for current breast cancer

        Radiotherapy

          -  No prior radiotherapy for current breast cancer

        Surgery

          -  Not specified
      
