TITLE:
Safety and Efficacy Study of Sitaxentan Sodium (Thelin) in Patients With Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension

CONDITION:
Pulmonary Hypertension

INTERVENTION:
sitaxsentan sodium

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Thelin (sitaxsentan
      sodium) compared to placebo (sugar pill) in the treatment of patients with pulmonary
      arterial hypertension (PAH).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Thelin (sitaxsentan
      sodium) as compared to placebo in the treatment of patients with PAH. A cohort of patients
      will be randomized to usual treatment with Tracleer (bosentan) for observational
      comparisons of safety and efficacy.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 12 Years to 75 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Have a current diagnosis of symptomatic PAH classified by one of the following:

               1. primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH) - also known as idiopathic pulmonary
                  arterial hypertension (IPAH);

               2. PAH associated with connective tissue diseases;

               3. PAH associated with one of the following congenital heart defects:

                    1. repaired ASD, VSD or PDA greater than one year post-operative

                    2. un-repaired secundum ASD (with resting oxygen saturation greater than 88
                       percent in room air measured by oximeter)

          -  World Health Organization (WHO) functional class II, III, IV

          -  Greater than 12 and less than 75 years of age

          -  Women of childbearing potential must be using two forms of medically acceptable
             contraception (at least one barrier method)

          -  Have a cardiac catheterization within 6 months before study entry that shows the
             following values:

               1. mean pulmonary artery pressure (PAPm) greater than 25 mmHg (at rest),

               2. pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) or left ventricular-end diastolic
                  pressure less than 15 mmHg, and

               3. pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) greater than 3 mmHg/L/min.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Portal hypertension or chronic liver disease

          -  ALT or AST levels greater than 1.5 times the upper limit of normal at the Screening
             Visit

          -  Contraindication to treatment with an endothelin receptor antagonist

          -  Recent history of abusing alcohol or illicit drugs

          -  Chronic renal insufficiency

          -  Pregnant or breastfeeding

          -  Atrial septostomy within 30 days before study entry

          -  Previous failure on bosentan because of safety concerns of the lack of clinical
             response
      
