TITLE:
Deslorelin Combined With Low-Dose Add-Back Estradiol and Testosterone in Preventing Breast Cancer in Premenopausal Women Who Are at High Risk for This Disease

CONDITION:
brca1 Mutation Carrier

INTERVENTION:
therapeutic estradiol

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Chemoprevention therapy is the use of certain drugs to try to prevent the
      development or recurrence of cancer. Deslorelin combined with low-dose add-back estradiol
      and testosterone (given to replace hormones suppressed by deslorelin) may be effective in
      preventing breast cancer in at-risk women.

      PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving deslorelin together with estradiol
      and testosterone works in preventing breast cancer in premenopausal women who are at high
      risk for this disease.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the effects on the breast of treatment with the gonadotropin-releasing hormone
      agonist (GnRHA)-based regimen in breast cancer (BRCA) gene mutation carriers, including
      correlation of changes in mammographic and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) densities with
      tissue morphometrics and biomarkers.

      II. Evaluate perspectives about risk reduction options and impact on quality-of-life (QOL)
      measures of participation in the chemopreventive protocol and in risk reduction surgery.

      OUTLINE:

      GROUP 1: Patients receive deslorelin, estradiol, and testosterone intranasally once daily
      (QD) for 6 months. Patients then undergo planned risk reduction mastectomy.

      GROUP 2: Patients receive deslorelin, estradiol, and testosterone intranasally QD for 10
      months. Patients then undergo continued surveillance through 10 months.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 21 Years to 48 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients must generally be in good health with lab values and physical examination
             within normal limits

          -  Known high risk of breast cancer due to BRCA mutation or empiric risk > 30% lifetime
             by the Claus model

          -  No evidence or history of pervious cancer, except non-melanoma skin cancer

          -  Premenopausal women planning risk reduction mastectomy in 6 months or more (Group 1)
             or continued surveillance (Group 2)

          -  Prior tubal ligation or willing to use a non-hormonal barrier method of contraception

          -  Signed the Informed Consent Form document for this study in accordance with all
             Federal, State and Institutional regulations

          -  Must be current non-smoker

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  GnRHA treatment within 12 months of study entry

          -  Nasal polyposis, atrophic rhinitis, severe allergic or vasomotor rhinitis, or
             sinusitis requiring current treatment or treatment for more than 3 months in the
             previous year

          -  Concurrent medications including: corticosteroids (prednisone, prednisolone,
             cortisone acetate, Decadron, Deltasone, hydrocortisone, Hydrocortone, Medrol),
             estrogens, progestins or androgens, including oral, implanted, or injected
             contraceptive; (At least 6 months must have elapsed since the last use of an
             implanted or injected contraceptive such as Norplant)

          -  Pregnant or breast-feeding or have been so in the last six months

          -  Immeasurable breast density on mammogram
      
