TITLE:
S0356 Oxaliplatin, 5-FU, Radiation Therapy (RT), Surgery for Pts With Stage II or III Cancer of Esophagus or Gastroesophageal (GE) Junction

CONDITION:
Esophageal Cancer

INTERVENTION:
fluorouracil

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as oxaliplatin and fluorouracil, work in
      different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Radiation
      therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Oxaliplatin and fluorouracil may make
      tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy and may kill more tumor cells. Giving
      chemotherapy and radiation therapy before surgery may shrink the tumor so that it can be
      removed.

      PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving oxaliplatin together with
      fluorouracil and radiation therapy works in treating patients who are undergoing surgery for
      stage II or stage III cancer of the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the pathologic complete response probability in patients with stage II or III
           adenocarcinoma of the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction treated with neoadjuvant
           oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, and radiotherapy followed by definitive surgical resection.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the frequency and severity of toxic effects associated with this neoadjuvant
           regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the overall survival and progression-free survival of patients treated with
           this regimen.

      Exploratory Analyses (subject to funding availability)

        -  Correlate, preliminarily, initial messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) levels of the genes
           for thymidylate synthase (TS), -glutamyl transpeptidase (GT), -glutamyl cysteine
           (-GCS), DNA excision repair cross-complementing (ERCC-1), and xeroderma pigmentosum
           (XPA) with response and survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate, preliminarily, the mRNA levels of TS, GT, -GCS, ERCC-1, and XPA before and
           after treatment with this regimen with survival of these patients.

        -  Correlate, preliminarily, specific genetic polymorphisms of TS and ERCC-1 with tumor
           response and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on days 1,
           15, and 29 and fluorouracil (5-FU) IV continuously on days 8-43. Beginning on day 8,
           patients also undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 5 weeks.

        -  Surgery: Patients with stable disease or better undergo surgical resection 4-10 weeks
           after completion of chemoradiotherapy.

        -  Adjuvant chemotherapy: Beginning 4-10 weeks after surgery, patients receive
           chemotherapy comprising oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on days 1, 15, and 29 and 5-FU IV
           continuously on days 1-36.

      Treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 45-85 patients will be accrued for this study within 17-21
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed primary adenocarcinoma of the thoracic esophagus or
             gastroesophageal junction

               -  No recurrent disease

               -  Primary esophageal tumor at least 20 cm below the incisors (if < 26 cm below the
                  incisors, a bronchoscopy must be performed and cytology must be negative)

               -  Esophageal disease confined to esophagus and peri-esophageal soft tissue

               -  Gastroesophageal junction disease extending  2 cm into the gastric cardia

          -  Clinical stage II or III disease by CT scan or MRI

               -  If no esophageal mass is detected by these methods, esophageal endoscopic
                  ultrasound is required to determine stage

               -  Positron-emission tomography scan is required to confirm stage

          -  Measurable or non-measurable disease by x-ray, scanning, or physical examination

          -  No celiac axis nodes  1.5 cm

               -  Measurable regional lymph nodes  1.5 cm at stations 2-10=N1 OR subdiaphragmatic
                  lymph nodes at stations 15-19  1.5 cm by CT scan or MRI allowed

               -  Palpable supraclavicular lymph nodes must be free of metastatic esophageal
                  cancer by biopsy

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  Over 18

        Performance status

          -  Zubrod 0-2

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Absolute neutrophil count  1,500/mm^3

          -  White blood cell (WBC) count  3,000/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin  10.0 g/dL (transfusion allowed)

        Hepatic

          -  Albumin  3 g/dL

          -  Bilirubin normal

        Renal

          -  Creatinine  1.5 times upper limit of normal

        Cardiovascular

          -  No myocardial infarction or cerebrovascular event within the past 6 months

        Pulmonary

          -  No active pneumonia or inflammatory lung infiltrate

        Other

          -  No other malignancy within the past 5 years except adequately treated basal cell or
             squamous cell skin cancer or carcinoma in situ of the cervix

          -  No peripheral neuropathy  grade 2

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  No prior chemotherapy for esophageal cancer

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  No prior radiotherapy for esophageal cancer

          -  No concurrent intensity-modulated radiotherapy

        Surgery

          -  No prior surgical resection or attempted surgical resection of esophageal cancer
      
