TITLE:
Study Comparing Risperidone vs Placebo as add-on Therapy in Patients With Generalized Anxiety Disorder Who Are Sub-optimally Responding to Standard Therapy.

CONDITION:
Anxiety Disorders

INTERVENTION:
risperidone oral tablets

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this trial is to determine the effectiveness of risperidone as an adjunctive
      treatment in patients with GAD who demonstrate a less-than-optimal response to their current
      anxiolytic treatment.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Many patients with Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) do not benefit or show only partial
      benefit from current psychotropic therapies. This trial was conducted for the purpose of
      determining the effectiveness of risperidone as an adjunctive treatment in patients with GAD
      who demonstrate a less-than-optimal response to their current anxiolytic treatment (either
      allowed antidepressants, benzodiazepines, or buspirone, or combination). Patients were
      randomized (patients are assigned different treatments based on chance) to either
      risperidone or placebo for 4 - 6 weeks of double-blind (neither the patient nor the
      physician knows whether drug or placebo is being taken, or at what dosage) treatment.
      Patients randomized to risperidone continued on their current anxiolytic treatment
      (treatment for anxiety) and received risperidone 0.25 mg per day for the first 3 days, 0.5
      mg per day for days 4 through 14, and 1 mg per day for days 15 through 28 of the trial. If
      clinically indicated, on day 29, the dose could be increased to 2 mg per day for the rest of
      the trial (4 to 6 additional weeks). At each dose level, risperidone was taken by mouth in a
      single daily dose. Patients were asked questions every one or two weeks, depending on the
      phase of the trial, to determine efficacy (effectiveness) and safety. The study hypothesis
      is that risperidone will be more effective as an adjunct to standard psychotropic treatments
      for symptoms of Generalized Anxiety Disorder than placebo, as measured by a composite of the
      four most troubling symptoms identified at baseline.

      Risperidone 0.25 mg per day for the first 3 days, 0.5 mg per day for days 4 through 14, and
      1 mg per day for days 15 through 28 of the trial. If clinically indicated, on day 29, the
      dose could be increased to 2 mg per day for the rest of the trial (4 to 6 additional weeks).
      At each dose level, risperidone was taken by mouth in a single daily dose.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Healthy on the basis of physical exam

          -  Treatment with one or more allowed antidepressants and/or anxiety medications for at
             least the past 8 weeks

          -  Judgement of the clinician that the patient has shown a sub-optimal response to this
             treatment

          -  Current diagnosis of Generalized Anxiety Disorder

          -  Maintained on a stable, therapeutic dose(s) of the allowed medication(s) for at least
             the past four weeks

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Presence of other serious medical illnesses

          -  Active use of cocaine or heroin

          -  History of suicide attempt in past 12 months

          -  Changes to antidepressant/anti-anxiety regimen (medication or dose) within the four
             weeks preceding study baseline (Day 1)

          -  History of clozapine use
      
