TITLE:
Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage II Prostate Cancer

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
70.2 Gy 3D-CRT/IMRT

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Specialized radiation therapy that delivers a high dose of radiation directly to
      the tumor may kill more tumor cells and cause less damage to normal tissue. It is not yet
      known which dose of radiation therapy is more effective in treating stage II prostate
      cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of two different doses of
      specialized radiation therapy in treating patients who have stage II prostate cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients with stage II adenocarcinoma of the prostate
           treated with high- vs standard-dose three-dimensional conformal or intensity-modulated
           radiotherapy.

        -  Compare the freedom from prostate-specific antigen failure, disease-specific survival,
           local progression, and distant metastases in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the probability of tumor control and normal tissue complications in patients
           treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the incidence of grade 2 or greater genitourinary and gastrointestinal acute
           and late toxicity in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the quality of life, including sexual function, of patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Correlate histopathologic or tumor-specific cytogenetic or chromosomal markers with
           cancer control outcomes in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      Gleason score and prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level (Gleason score 2-6, PSA 10 mg/mL
      but < 20 ng/mL vs Gleason score 7, PSA < 15 ng/mL) and radiation modality (three-dimensional
      conformal radiotherapy [3D-CRT] vs intensity-modulated radiotherapy [IMRT]). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo standard-dose 3D-CRT or IMRT once daily, 5 days a week, for 7.8
           weeks (39 treatment days).

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo high-dose 3D-CRT or IMRT once daily, 5 days a week, for 8.8
           weeks (44 treatment days).

      Quality of life (QOL) is assessed initially at baseline. After completion of radiotherapy,
      QOL is assessed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 4 years.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,520 patients (760 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 5 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the prostate

               -  Clinical stage T1b-T2b

          -  Meets one of the following criteria:

               -  Gleason score 2-6 AND prostate-specific antigen (PSA)  10 ng/mL but < 20 ng/mL

               -  Gleason score 7 AND PSA < 15 ng/mL

          -  No regional lymph node involvement

          -  No distant metastases

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  Any age

        Performance status:

          -  Zubrod 0-1

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No other invasive malignancy within the past 5 years except localized basal cell or
             squamous cell skin cancer

          -  No other major medical or psychiatric illness that would preclude study participation

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior cytotoxic chemotherapy

          -  No concurrent cytotoxic chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  At least 3 months since prior finasteride

          -  No other prior hormonal therapy, including:

               -  Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonists (e.g., goserelin or leuprolide)

               -  Antiandrogens (e.g., flutamide or bicalutamide)

               -  Estrogens (e.g., diethylstilbestrol)

          -  No concurrent (neoadjuvant or adjuvant) hormonal therapy

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No prior pelvic irradiation or brachytherapy

        Surgery:

          -  No prior radical surgery (prostatectomy) or cryosurgery for prostate cancer

          -  No prior surgical castration (bilateral orchiectomy)

        Other:

          -  At least 3 months since prior finasteride or phytoestrogen preparation (PC-SPES)
      
