TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy Plus Sargramostim in Treating Patients With Cancer of the Uterus

CONDITION:
Sarcoma

INTERVENTION:
sargramostim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Colony-stimulating factors such as sargramostim may increase
      the number of immune cells found in bone marrow or peripheral blood and may help a person's
      immune system recover from the side effects of chemotherapy.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy plus
      sargramostim in treating patients who have advanced, persistent, or recurrent cancer of the
      uterus.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the antitumor activity of dacarbazine, mitomycin, doxorubicin, and cisplatin
           plus sargramostim (GM-CSF) in patients with advanced, persistent, or recurrent
           leiomyosarcoma of the uterus.

        -  Determine the nature and degree of toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive dacarbazine IV over 2 hours, followed by mitomycin IV over 2-5
      minutes, doxorubicin IV over 2-5 minutes, and cisplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1. Patients
      also receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) once every 12 hours on days -6 to -3
      before the first chemotherapy course and then on days 2-15 and 23-26 of all chemotherapy
      courses. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients achieving stable disease receive a maximum of 4 courses. Patients
      achieving complete or partial response receive a maximum of 6 courses.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 12-43 patients will be accrued for this study within 12-28
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed primary leiomyosarcoma (LMS) of the uterus

               -  Advanced, persistent, or recurrent disease that is refractory to curative
                  therapy or established treatments

          -  At least 1 unidimensionally measurable target lesion

               -  At least 20 mm by conventional techniques (e.g., palpation, plain x-ray, CT
                  scan, or MRI) OR

               -  At least 10 mm by spiral CT scan

               -  Tumors within a previously irradiated field are designated as non-target lesions

          -  Ineligible for a higher priority Gynecologic Oncology Group protocol (if one exists),
             including any active phase III protocol for the same population

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  GOG 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  SGOT no greater than 2.5 times ULN

          -  Alkaline phosphatase no greater than 2.5 times ULN

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 times ULN

        Other:

          -  No active infection requiring antibiotics

          -  No grade 2 or greater sensory or motor neuropathy

          -  No other invasive malignancy within the past 5 years except nonmelanoma skin cancer

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior cytotoxic chemotherapy for LMS of the uterus

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  At least 1 week since prior hormonal therapy for LMS of the uterus

          -  Concurrent hormone replacement therapy allowed

        Radiotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  Recovered from prior recent radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  Recovered from prior recent surgery

        Other:

          -  Recovered from other prior recent therapy

          -  No prior cancer treatment that would preclude study therapy
      
