TITLE:
A Comparison of Language Intervention Programs

CONDITION:
Language Disorders

INTERVENTION:
Fast ForWord

SUMMARY:

      Brief Summary:

      Nearly 7% of elementary school children present with difficulties learning and using
      language. Unfortunately, language impairments are often long lasting and may have serious
      social, academic, and vocational ramifications. More than 1 million children receive
      language intervention in the public schools each year, and many more are seen in hospitals
      and other clinical settings.

      This randomized clinical trial compares the language outcomes of Fast ForWord to two other
      interventions (computer assisted language intervention without acoustically modified speech
      and individual language intervention) and to the outcomes of an academic enrichment
      (control) condition. Each year for 3 years, children will be randomly assigned to each of
      the four conditions at three regional sites (Austin, Texas, Dallas, Texas, and Lawrence,
      Kansas). The treatments will be administered in special summer programs. The primary
      research question is which intervention results in the most improvement in the composite
      language score from the Oral and Written Language Scales. Secondary questions include which
      intervention results in the greatest gains in conversational language,which intervention
      results in the greatest gains 3 and 6 months after training, which intervention results in
      the greatest improvement in auditory perception, and which intervention is the most cost
      effective.

      The results of the study will have theoretical and practical value. Theoretically, the study
      tests the temporal processing hypothesis of language impairment. Practically, the study will
      describe and compare the language, communication, auditory processing and academic outcomes
      of different language interventions. The study will help clinicians and administrators
      choose the most effective and least expensive treatment for the children they serve.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 6 Years to 9 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  age 6 to 9 years

          -  score between 75 and 125 on the Matrices subtest of the Kaufman Brief Intelligence
             Test

          -  Speaking Quotient of 79 or lower on the Test of Language Development: Primary: 3rd
             Edition

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Previous participation in 8 or more hours of language intervention or classroom
             activities using any of the Fast ForWord, Laureate, or Earobics speech-language or
             reading software and/or the Lindamood-Bell auditory discrimination training

          -  Failure of a hearing screening test

          -  An episode of otitis media in the previous 12 months

          -  Evidence of focal brain lesion, traumatic brain injury, cerebral palsy, or seizure
             disorder

          -  Abnormality of oral structure or function impeding normal language production
      
