TITLE:
Radiation Therapy and Chemotherapy Before and After Surgery in Treating Patients With Esophageal Cancer

CONDITION:
Esophageal Cancer

INTERVENTION:
cisplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Drugs used in
      chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or
      die. Combining radiation therapy with chemotherapy before and after surgery may kill more
      tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase II trial to compare the effectiveness of combining radiation
      therapy with two different chemotherapy regimens before and after surgery in treating
      patients who have esophageal cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the pathologic complete response rate in patients with adenocarcinoma of the
           esophagus or gastroesophageal junction treated with radiotherapy with pre- and
           post-operative cisplatin plus paclitaxel versus cisplatin plus irinotecan.

        -  Compare the survival outcome in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the tolerability of these adjuvant chemotherapy regimens after neoadjuvant
           chemoradiotherapy in these patients.

        -  Compare time to progression or recurrence in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to ECOG
      performance status (0 vs. 1) and stage of disease (T2-3, N0, M0 vs. T1-3, N0-1, M0 or M1A).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm A: Patients receive neoadjuvant radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 5 weeks
           beginning on day 1 concurrently with neoadjuvant chemotherapy comprising cisplatin IV
           (Intravenous) over 2-3 hours followed by irinotecan IV over 30-60 minutes once daily on
           days 1, 8, 22, and 29. Four to six weeks after completion of neoadjuvant
           chemoradiotherapy, patients undergo surgical resection. A minimum of 4 weeks after
           resection, patients receive adjuvant chemotherapy comprising cisplatin and irinotecan
           as above on days 1 and 8. Treatment with adjuvant chemotherapy repeats every 3 weeks
           for 3 courses.

        -  Arm B: Patients receive neoadjuvant radiotherapy as in arm A concurrently with
           neoadjuvant chemotherapy comprising paclitaxel IV (Intravenous) over 1 hour followed by
           cisplatin IV over 2-3 hours once daily on days 1, 8, 15, 22, and 29. Patients then
           undergo surgical resection as in arm A. A minimum of 4 weeks after resection, patients
           receive adjuvant chemotherapy comprising paclitaxel IV over 3 hours followed by
           cisplatin as above on day 1. Treatment with adjuvant chemotherapy repeats every 3 weeks
           for 3 courses.

      In both arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Patients are followed at 1 month, every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years,
      and then annually for 5 years.

      ACCRUAL: A total of 97 patients (50 on Arm A and 47 on Arm B) were accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Newly diagnosed adenocarcinoma of the esophagus (20 cm below incisors) or
             gastroesophageal junction

               -  Stage T2-3, N0, M0 OR

               -  Stage T1-3, N0-1, M0 or M1A (celiac nodal metastasis)

          -  Tumor must be considered surgically resectable (T1-3, but not T4)

          -  Age>=18 years

          -  ECOG Performance status 0-1

          -  Adequate hematopoietic, hepatic, renal functions defined by the following within 4
             weeks prior to randomization:

          -  Granulocyte count at least 1,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 mg/dL

          -  Creatinine clearance at least 60 mL/min

          -  Prior curatively treated malignancy allowed if currently disease-free and survival
             prognosis is more than 5 years

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  Endoscopy with biopsy and dilation allowed

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Tumor extends more than 2 cm into the cardia

          -  Pregnant or nursing

          -  Other concurrent illness that would preclude study therapy or surgical resection

          -  Concurrent filgrastim (G-CSF) during study radiotherapy

          -  Prior chemotherapy

          -  Prior radiotherapy

          -  Prior surgery
      
