TITLE:
Inhaled Nitric Oxide for Preterm Infants With Severe Respiratory Failure

CONDITION:
Infant, Newborn

INTERVENTION:
Inhaled nitric oxide

SUMMARY:

      This multicenter trial tested whether inhaled nitric oxide would reduce death or the need
      for oxygen in preterm infants (less than 34 weeks gestational age) with severe lung disease.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This multicenter, randomized, double-masked, controlled clinical trial evaluated the
      efficacy of inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) in the treatment of the preterm infant with
      respiratory failure secondary to respiratory distress syndrome (RDS), sepsis/pneumonia,
      aspiration syndrome, idiopathic pulmonary hypertension and/or suspected pulmonary
      hypoplasia.

      Infants were followed until death or discharge to home. The trial compared iNO therapy to
      mock gas delivery as the control, and otherwise incorporated conventional management
      strategies (including treatment with surfactant and high frequency ventilation as adjuncts
      to iNO therapy).

      During the initial dosing, iNO was started at 5 ppm and could be increased to 10 ppm. If the
      infant did not respond, study gas was discontinued. For infants who responded to study gas,
      a gradual weaning was initiated. The total exposure to study gas did not exceed 336 hours
      (14 days). Infants were monitored for signs of toxicity.

      Medical and neurodevelopmental outcome of surviving infants were assessed at 18 to 22 months
      corrected age by masked, certified examiners.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 120 Hours
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

          -  Any infant with a birth weight 401 - 1500 grams and < 34 weeks gestational age with
             an OI (mean Paw x FiO2 x 100/PaO2) > 10 on two consecutive blood gases at least 30
             minutes apart, but no more than 12 hours apart.

        or

          -  Infants > 1500 grams and < 34 weeks gestational age will be entered in the Larger
             Preemie Pilot Study if they have an OI greater than or equal to 15 on two consecutive
             blood gases at least 30 minutes apart, but no more than 12 hours apart.

          -  Infants requiring assisted ventilation with a diagnosis of RDS/HMD, pneumonia and/or
             sepsis, aspiration syndrome, idiopathic pulmonary hypertension, or suspected
             pulmonary hypoplasia associated with PROM and/or oligohydramnios.

          -  Greater than or equal to 4 hours after one dose of surfactant.

          -  Less than or equal to 120 hours of age.

          -  All infants must have an indwelling arterial line.

        Exclusion Criteria

          -  Any infant in whom a decision has been made not to provide full treatment (e.g.
             chromosomal anomalies or severe birth asphyxia).

          -  Known structural congenital heart disease, except patent ductus arteriosus and
             atrial-level shunts.

          -  Infants with any major abnormality involving the respiratory system such as
             congenital diaphragmatic hernia, tracheoesophageal fistula or cystic fibrosis.

          -  Any bleeding diathesis considered to be clinically significant or thrombocytopenia
             with platelet count < 50,000.

          -  Prior enrollment into a conflicting clinical trial such as the Neonatal Network
             Surfactant CPAP trial.Inclusion Criteria
      
