TITLE:
Interleukin-12 in Treating Patients With Ovarian Epithelial Cancer or Primary Peritoneal Cancer

CONDITION:
Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer

INTERVENTION:
recombinant interleukin-12

SUMMARY:

      Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of intraperitoneal interleukin-12 in treating
      patients who have ovarian epithelial cancer or primary peritoneal cancer. Interleukin-12 may
      kill tumor cells by stopping blood flow to the tumor and by stimulating a person's white
      blood cells to kill tumor cells. Giving interleukin-12 directly into the peritoneal cavity
      may kill cancer cells
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the response rate and progression-free interval in patients with peritoneal
      carcinomatosis associated with ovarian epithelial cancer or primary peritoneal carcinoma
      treated with intraperitoneal interleukin-12.

      II. Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxicity and reversibility of toxicity of
      this regimen in these patients.

      III. Determine peritoneal cavity tumor cell responses, in terms of negative cytology,
      conversion of aneuploidy to diploidy, and apoptosis as evidence of therapeutic effect, in
      patients treated with this regimen.

      IV. Assess quality of life in patients treated with this regimen. V. Determine the
      pharmacology and pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients.

      VI. Determine whether this regimen facilitates adaptive or innate immunity in vivo or serum
      antibody responses to tumor-associated antigens in these patients.

      VII. Determine whether this regimen decreases expression of vascular endothelial growth
      factor, fibroblast growth factor 2, and interleukin-8 as surrogate markers of angiogenesis
      and whether a decrease in marker expression is associated with clinical activity of this
      drug in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive interleukin-12 intraperitoneally once weekly. Treatment repeats every 4
      weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      with stable or responding disease receive 2 additional courses. Quality of life is assessed
      at baseline; prior to weeks 2, 4, 8, 12, and 16 of treatment; when patients are informed of
      their disease response; and then 2 weeks later. Patients are followed every 2 months for 1
      year and then every 3 months for 1 year.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Histologically confirmed peritoneal carcinomatosis associated with ovarian epithelial
             or primary peritoneal epithelial carcinoma

               -  Surgically documented disease after prior platinum-based chemotherapy with or
                  without surgery

               -  Minimal residual disease, defined as metastases less than 1 cm in largest
                  diameter

          -  No significant adhesions or symptoms of obstruction

          -  No extra-abdominal or parenchymal disease

          -  No more than 6 weeks since prior primary chemotherapy

          -  Performance status - Zubrod 0-1

          -  Absolute granulocyte count greater than 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

          -  Lymphocyte count greater than 600/mm^3

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 mg/dL

          -  SGOT or SGPT no greater than 2.5 times upper limit of normal

          -  Albumin at least 3.0 g/dL

          -  Hepatitis B and C negative

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 mg/dL

          -  No significant cardiac disease

          -  No significant pulmonary disease

          -  No overt autoimmune disease

          -  No other malignancy within the past 10 years except squamous cell carcinoma in situ
             or basal cell skin cancer

          -  HIV negative

          -  Successful placement of peritoneal catheter

          -  No prior immunotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  Recovered from prior chemotherapy

          -  No concurrent chemotherapy

          -  No chronic steroid therapy

          -  No prior radiotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  Recovered from prior surgery

          -  At least 2 weeks since prior laparoscopy

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior laparotomy
      
