TITLE:
Efficacy And Safety Of CX516 In Elderly Participants With Mild Cognitive Impairment.

CONDITION:
Mild Cognitive Impairment

INTERVENTION:
CX516 (Ampalex)

SUMMARY:

      Glutamate is fundamentally involved in learning and memory. Memory loss associated with mild
      cognitive impairment may be due to loss of glutamate receptors in the aging brain. There is
      evidence CX516 enhances brain activity by specifically targeting remaining glutamate
      receptors in the affected portions of the brain. This study will test the safety and
      efficacy of CX516 in the symptomatic treatment of participants with mild cognitive
      impairment.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 55 Years to 85 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion criteria

          -  Clinical diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment

          -  Good general health with no additional diseases that would interfere with the study.

        Exclusion criteria

          -  Any significant neurologic disease (other than suspected incipient Alzheimer's
             disease), such as Parkinson's disease, stroke, TIA's, multi-infarct dementia,
             Huntington's disease, head trauma, chronic CNS infection.

          -  History of major depression or another major psychiatric disorder within the past 6
             months.

          -  History of schizophrenia, mania or recurrent psychotic episodes.

          -  History of alcohol or DSM IV-diagnosed substance abuse or dependence disorder within
             the past year.

          -  History of blackout, epilepsy or seizures, or an abnormal EEG as judged by the
             Investigator and considering the age of the participant.

          -  Any clinically significant hepatic, renal, cardiovascular, pulmonary,
             gastrointestinal or hematological illness or unstable medical condition which could
             interfere with drug safety, or absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion, or
             lead to difficulty complying with the protocol.
      
