TITLE:
Magnesium Effects in Apheresis

CONDITION:
Healthy

INTERVENTION:
magnesium

SUMMARY:

      This study will determine whether magnesium replacement during apheresis can decrease side
      effects that donors commonly experience. Apheresis is a method of collecting large numbers
      of certain blood cells, such as white cells, stem cells, or platelets. In this procedure,
      whole blood is collected through a needle in an arm vein, similar to donating blood. The
      blood is separated into its components by centrifugation (spinning), the required cells are
      extracted, and the rest of the blood is returned to the body, either through the same needle
      or through another needle in the other arm.

      When healthy people donate cells by apheresis, a blood thinner called citrate is added to
      prevent the blood from clotting in the apheresis machine. Citrate works by reducing calcium
      in the blood. When the blood is returned to the donor, citrate from the machine is also
      returned, lowering the donor's calcium levels. As a result, donors often feel tingling
      around the mouth, hands, and feet. Some of these symptoms can be prevented by giving calcium
      intravenously (through a vein) during the procedure. Even with the added calcium, however,
      some donors still have symptoms. Magnesium levels are also lowered by citrate, but it is not
      known if this causes symptoms. This study will examine whether the decrease in magnesium
      levels also contributes to the side effects of apheresis and whether magnesium replacement
      can reduce these symptoms.

      Healthy apheresis donors 18 years of age or older who are enrolled in NIH protocols may
      participate in this study.

      Donors will undergo the apheresis procedures required by the NIH protocol they are enrolled
      in. Throughout the procedure, they will receive an intravenous infusion of a salt solution
      that may or may not contain magnesium. Blood samples of 5 milliliters (1 teaspoon) each will
      be taken from the apheresis machine at the beginning and end of the procedure and at 30- to
      60-minute intervals during the procedure. No more than 50 ml (3 tablespoons) will be taken
      during any single apheresis. The last sample will be drawn 60 minutes after completion of
      the apheresis. In addition, donors will:

        -  Provide a urine sample at the beginning and end of each apheresis procedure.

        -  Donate an additional urine sample and an additional 5 ml blood sample the morning after
           apheresis

        -  Describe any symptoms experienced during apheresis to the apheresis nurse
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Large volume leukapheresis (LVL) is increasingly used to collect peripheral blood stem cells
      (PBSCs) and other mononuclear cells (MNC) for hematopoietic and immune reconstitution, with
      recent emphasis on increased processing volumes. Decreases in divalent cation levels caused
      by administration of citrate anticoagulant during LVL can be associated with severe donor
      reactions, and may limit the rate at which blood can be processed. Several donors at NIH
      experienced citrate-related hypocalcemic tetany during LVL, in response to which we
      developed standard operating procedures for the routine administration of prophylactic
      intravenous calcium solutions during longer apheresis procedures. Other centers have
      utilized heparin to reduce the amount of citrate returned to the donor, however, this
      exposes the donor to systemic anticoagulation and may be associated with hematomas or
      clumping of the apheresis product.

      We previously determined that citrate administration during apheresis results in significant
      excretion of calcium and magnesium in the urine during the procedure, and that performance
      of prolonged or repeated LVL causes significant depletion of blood calcium and magnesium
      levels. Decreases in calcium levels were ameliorated during procedures performed with
      prophylactic calcium administration. Our preliminary studies also demonstrated that ionized
      magnesium levels were markedly reduced during LVL as well as plateletpheresis procedures.
      The clinical impact of severe, acute decreases in ionized magnesium levels in healthy
      apheresis donors is not clear, however. Since most of the adverse effects related to citrate
      administration can be prevented by prophylactic calcium administration, it is unknown what
      aspect of the remaining discomfort may be attributable to hypomagnesemia. This protocol will
      focus on determining the contribution of acute hypomagnesemia to citrate-related symptoms
      during large-volume apheresis, and establishing the role of and indications for prophylactic
      intravenous magnesium replacement in this setting. The study plan will consist of a
      prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study. Healthy allogeneic donors
      will be assigned to one of two treatment groups. One group will receive intravenous
      magnesium infusions throughout scheduled LVL procedures; the other group will receive
      equivalent volume infusions of normal saline. Symptoms and blood samples will be obtained by
      apheresis nurses and laboratory assays will be performed by associate laboratory
      investigators, all in a blinded fashion.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION

        Healthy allogeneic subjects enrolled on NIH LVL protocols, with approval of the PI:

        NHLBI protocols-99-H-0046, 99-H-0050, 99-H-0064, 98-H-0122, 98-H-0006, 97-H-0202,
        97-H-0196, 98-H-0154, 01-H-0162, 01-H-0010, 02-H-0111;

        NIAID protocols -98-I-0104, 01-I-0013;

        DTM protocols-00-CC-0165;

        NCI protocols-00-C-0119, 00-C-0201, 00-C-0206

        Weight greater than or equal to 40 kg

        Bilateral peripheral venous access

        Minimum LVL volume of 12 liters processed (per subject's primary protocol)

        Hematocrit greater than or equal to 35 percent

        Normal serum electrolyte, calcium and magnesium values

        Normal hepatic and kidney function tests

        Able to give informed consent

        Age greater than 18 years.
      
