TITLE:
Thymosin Plus PEG-Interferon in Non-Cirrhotic Hepatitis C Patients Who Did Not Respond to Interferon or Interferon Plus Ribavirin

CONDITION:
Hepatitis C

INTERVENTION:
thymalfasin (thymosin alpha 1) + PEGinterferon alfa-2a

SUMMARY:

      Chronic hepatitis C infection is one of the leading causes of chronic liver disease in the
      United States. Approximately one-third of patients with hepatitis C infection develop
      cirrhosis of the liver, which can lead to liver failure or liver cancer. The current
      treatment for hepatitis C infection in previously untreated patients is successful in only
      about half of patients. There is no established therapy for non-responders.

      This is a randomized, double-blinded, multicenter trial to determine the effectiveness of
      thymosin alpha 1 (thymalfasin) 1.6 mg twice weekly plus PEGinterferon alfa-2a 180 ug/wk
      compared to placebo plus PEGinterferon alfa-2a in adults with chronic hepatitis C without
      cirrhosis who are non-responders to previous treatment with interferon or interferon plus
      ribavirin. The definition of non-response requires a positive HCV RNA test at the end of a
      course of at least 12 weeks of therapy. Patients will receive treatment for 12 months, and
      will be followed-up for a further 6 months after the end of therapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion criteria:

          -  Signed written informed consent.

          -  Age over 18 years old.

          -  Presence of HCV RNA measured by qualitative PCR.

          -  Nonresponder to a previous course of therapy with either IFN alone or IFN plus
             ribavirin. The patient must have been treated for at least 12 weeks.

          -  Washout period of at least 6 months from previous therapy with IFN alone or IFN plus
             Ribavirin.

          -  Liver biopsy consistent with chronic hepatitis C within the last 12 months before
             treatment starts, and at least 6 months after the end of the prior failed therapy.

          -  No clinical or histological evidence of cirrhosis (METAVIR fibrosis score 0 to 3).

          -  Compensated liver disease with prothrombin time prolonged less than 3 seconds over
             control, serum albumin stable and within normal limits, total bilirubin < 2 mg/dl,
             and no history of hepatic encephalopathy, esophageal varices or ascites.

          -  Ultrasound, CT scan, or MRI of the liver within 3 months of entry negative for HCC.

          -  Hematocrit > 30%, platelet count > 100 x 109/L, WBC > 3 x 109/L, and
             polymorphonuclear white cell count > 1.5 x 109/L.

          -  Adequate renal function as demonstrated by serum creatinine level < 2.0 mg/dL.

          -  Normal TSH or adequately controlled thyroid function.

          -  If the patient is a woman, she is using a definitive method of birth control in
             consultation with her physician, or is surgically sterile or post-menopausal.

        Exclusion criteria:

          -  Use of systemic corticosteroids within 6 months of entry.

          -  Current use of any drug known to be hepatotoxic, any drug (other than the study
             drugs) known to have or suspected of having therapeutic activity in hepatitis C or of
             any immunosuppressive drug (including corticosteroids).

          -  Any other liver disease including hepatitis B, hepatitis delta, alcoholic liver
             disease, drug-induced liver injury, primary biliary cirrhosis, sclerosing
             cholangitis, autoimmune hepatitis, hemochromatosis, alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency,
             or Wilson's disease.

          -  Alpha-fetoprotein > 200 ng/mL.

          -  Current or past diagnosis of cirrhosis.

          -  Evidence of portal hypertension either by Doppler ultrasonography or gastrointestinal
             endoscopy.

          -  Decompensated liver disease based on a history of hepatic encephalopathy, esophageal
             varices, or ascites.

          -  HIV infection diagnosed by HIV seropositivity and confirmed by Western blot.

          -  Concomitant or prior history of malignancy other than curatively treated skin cancer
             or surgically cured in situ carcinoma of the cervix.

          -  Active infectious process other than HCV that is not of a self-limited nature (eg. TB
             or AIDS).

          -  Rheumatoid arthritis or other autoimmune disease (serum ANA > 1:160).

          -  Pregnancy as documented by a urine pregnancy test.

          -  Alcohol or intravenous drug abuse within the previous 1 year.

          -  Chronic use of methadone.

          -  Patients who are poor medical risk or who have any non-malignant systemic disease
             that, in the opinion of the investigator, would make it unlikely that the patient
             could complete the protocol.

          -  Patients with a history of severe depression that required either hospitalization or
             electroshock therapy; or depression associated with suicide attempt.

          -  Patients with significant pre-existing cardiac or pulmonary disease.

          -  Any indication that the patient would not comply with the conditions of the study
             protocol.

          -  Previous treatment with thymosin alpha 1.

          -  Patients with known hypersensitivity to IFNa.

          -  Simultaneous participation in another investigational drug study, or participation in
             any clinical trial involving investigational drugs with 3 months before study entry.

          -  Family history of intracerebral hemorrhage.
      
