TITLE:
Hypothermia to Treat Severe Brain Injury

CONDITION:
Brain Injuries

INTERVENTION:
hypothermia (body temperature lowered to 33C or 91.4F)

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this trial is to determine if hypothermia (body cooling), administered very
      soon after a severe brain injury improves functional outcome. This pilot trial ended in July
      2005. Please see clinicaltrials.gov record number NCT00178711 for the Phase III version of
      the trial (see link below).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      After brain injury, the brain produces certain chemicals that are harmful to the injured
      tissues. Moderate hypothermiaalso called body coolingmay slow or prevent the production of
      these chemicals. Hypothermia also decreases the amount of oxygen needed by the brain, which
      may provide some protection during this critical period. Earlier studies have shown that
      maintenance of moderate hypothermia may have a helpful effect in head injury patients ages
      16 to 45 who arrive at the hospital with a low body temperature suggesting that very early
      cooling may be beneficial.

      In this study scientists will initiate hypothermia or body cooling to 35C within two hours
      of severe brain injury to determine if body cooling improves functional outcome.

      Patients may enter the study in one of two ways. They may be evaluated and surface cooling
      begun at the scene by emergency medical services (EMS) personnel affiliated with the study;
      or patients who arrive in the emergency department (ED) of the study hospital within 2 hours
      of injuryand who have not already been evaluated by EMS personnel affiliated with the
      studywill be evaluated and cooling begun, if applicable, by NABISH study personnel.

      NABISH-trained EMS personnel who reach a patient with a suspected severe head injury within
      2 hours of injury will induce hypothermia to 35C at the scene, in transit, or in the ED.

      NABISH study personnel will induce hypothermia to 35C in the ED in patients with suspected
      severe head injury who reach the ED within 2 hours of injury if cooling has not already
      begun. Patients who meet entry criteria (based upon past studies) for moderate hypothermia
      for 48 hours will then be cooled to 33C and then gradually rewarmed after 48 hours at 33C.
      Patients initially cooled to 35C within 2 hours of injury who prove during trauma
      evaluation to have exclusion criteria for 48 hours of moderate hypothermia will be warmed
      from 35C to 37C.

      This pilot trial ended in July 2005. Please see clinicaltrials.gov record number NCT00178711
      for the Phase III version of the trial (see link below).
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to 45 Years
Criteria:

        ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR EARLY COOLING TO 35C:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  GCS 3-8 on initial evaluation or deteriorates during transport

          -  Mechanism of injury consistent with blunt, non-penetrating trauma to head

          -  Systolic blood pressure > 110 mm Hg

          -  Diastolic blood pressure> 60 mm Hg

          -  Heart rate (pulse) < 120 beats per minute

          -  Estimated or known age 16-45

          -  No suspicion of pregnancy

          -  Esophageal/rectal probe temperature > 35.5C (Pre-hospital cooling only)

          -  Injured < 2 hours prior to arrival of pre-hospital providers

          -  No evidence of severe chest trauma (unilaterally absent breath sounds with tracheal
             deviation or distended neck veins or requiring thoracentesis).

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Following commands upon EMS arrival without deterioration to coma or follows command
             after an initial period of coma.

          -  Mechanism of injury GSW or no indication of head injury

          -  Systolic blood pressure < 120 mm Hg

          -  Diastolic blood pressure < 60 mm Hg

          -  Heart rate (pulse) > 120 beats per minute

          -  Estimated or know age > 45 or < 16

          -  Suspected pregnancy

          -  Forehead scan temp < 35.5C (Pre-hospital cooling only)

          -  Injured >2 hours prior to arrival of pre-hospital providers

          -  Evidence of major chest trauma (unilaterally absent breath sounds with tracheal
             deviation or distended neck veins or requiring thoracentesis.

        ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR 48 HOURS OF MODERATE HYPOTHERMIA (33C):

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Non-penetrating brain injury with a post-resuscitation Glasgow Coma Score < 8 (motor
             1-5).

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Glasgow Coma Score = 7 or 8 with a normal CT scan or a CT scan showing only mild
             subarachnoid hemorrhage or skull fracture.

          -  Glasgow Coma Score = 3 and bilaterally unreactive pupils.

          -  AIS >/= 4 for any body area except head.

          -  Persistent hypotension in the Emergency Department (systolic blood pressure < 90 mmHg
             for > 30 minutes after arrival).

          -  Persistent hypoxia (O2 saturation < 94%) for > 30 minutes post resuscitation.

          -  Unavailable for cooling within four hours of injury.

          -  Pre-existing medical conditions, if known.
      
