TITLE:
The Effect of Tracleer on Male Fertility

CONDITION:
Hypertension, Pulmonary

INTERVENTION:
bosentan

SUMMARY:

      The objective of the study is to evaluate the effects of chronic TRACLEER treatment on
      testicular function via semen analysis in male patients with primary pulmonary arterial
      hypertension (PAH).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male patients age 18-65 years.

          -  Bosentan-nave.

          -  PPH, WHO functional class III/IV, in need of TRACLEER

          -  Patients pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) secondary to congenital heart disease.

          -  Written informed consent.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Female

          -  Patients with PAH secondary to connective tissue vascular diseases or HIV.

          -  Patients who have undergone a vasectomy.

          -  Patients with an average baseline sperm concentration < 15 x 10[6]/mL, or any sample
             with a sperm concentration <= 7.5 x 10[6]/mL.

          -  Patients with an average baseline sperm motility <20% or normal sperm morphology <5%.

          -  Body weight < 50 kg.

          -  Hypotension, defined as systolic blood pressure less than 85 mm Hg.

          -  AST and/or ALT plasma levels greater than 3 times ULN.

          -  Hypersensitivity to bosentan or any of the components of the formulation.

          -  Treatment with glyburide, cyclosporine A or tacrolimus at inclusion or planned during
             the study.

          -  Treatment with hormone suppressive agents, including androgens, estrogens, anabolic
             steroids or glucocorticoids within the past 6 months or planned during the study.

          -  Current treatment less than 3 months prior to inclusion or planned treatment with
             prostacyclin or prostacyclin analogues (e.g., Flolan or Remodulin).

          -  Patients who received an investigational drug in the month preceding the study start
             or who are due to be treated with another investigational drug during the study
             period.

          -  Known drug or alcohol dependence or any other factors that will interfere with
             conduct of the study.

          -  Any illness other than PPH that will reduce life expectancy to less than 6 months.

          -  Active cancer.

          -  Prior treatment with an anti-neoplastic agent or ionizing radiation.

          -  Hot tub/Jacuzzi use.

          -  Uncontrolled diseases including diabetes, liver or kidney disease.

          -  Patients receiving spironolactone (aldactone) less than 3 months prior to inclusion
             or dose >25 mg/day at baseline or anytime during the study.
      
