TITLE:
Myotonic Dystrophy and Facioscapulohumeral Muscular Dystrophy Registry

CONDITION:
Myotonic Dystrophy

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      Myotonic dystrophy (DM) and facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) are inherited
      disorders characterized by progressive muscle weakness and loss of muscle tissue. The
      purpose of this registry is to connect people with DM or FSHD with researchers studying
      these diseases. The registry will offer individuals with DM and FSHD an opportunity to
      participate in research that focuses of their diseases. The registry will also help
      scientists to accomplish research on DM and FSHD and to distribute their findings to
      patients and care providers.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The National Registry of DM and FSHD Patients and Family Members was developed to create a
      link between patients and scientists in order to promote research on these rare illnesses.
      The Registry is sponsored by the National Institutes of Health.

      Patients that are interested in joining the Registry can email or call to request an
      application or download the forms from the website (www.dystrophyregistry.org). The
      Application packet contains:

        -  A Patient Information Form, which asks about your muscle strength, general health, and
           how your disease affects your daily life

        -  A Medical Records Release Form, which allows us to contact your doctor and obtain
           records about your diagnosis

        -  An informed Consent Form, which describes the study's purpose and what you can expect
           while you are involved with the project.

      After you are enrolled in the Registry, there are several ways to participate in research.
      The activities include:

        -  Complete an annual update form to help us keep track of how your symptoms change over
           time.

        -  Receive updates about the progress of the Registry, research highlights, and other news
           related to muscular dystrophy through newsletters, an email listserv, and Facebook.

        -  Receive letters from the Registry when researchers are looking for patients to take
           part in studies. These projects may include filling out questionnaires, exploring new
           treatments, and other types of research.

      There is no obligation to participate in these activities. Taking part in any study or
      filling out the annual updates are completely up to you.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Diagnosed with DM, FSHD, or related diseases or are an unaffected family member of
             someone diagnosed with one of these diseases

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  No family history of DM, FSHD, or related diseases
      
