TITLE:
Rituximab, Prednisone, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, Vincristine, and Yttrium Y 90 Ibritumomab Tiuxetan in Treating Patients With Previously Untreated Mantle Cell Lymphoma

CONDITION:
Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
rituximab

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab and yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan,
      can locate cancer cells and either kill them or deliver radioactive cancer-killing
      substances to them without harming normal cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as
      prednisone, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and vincristine, use different ways to stop
      cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining monoclonal antibody
      therapy with chemotherapy may kill more cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving rituximab and combination
      chemotherapy together with yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan works in treating patients with
      previously untreated mantle cell lymphoma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the time to treatment failure in patients with previously untreated mantle
           cell lymphoma treated with rituximab and CHOP chemotherapy comprising prednisone,
           cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and vincristine followed by yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab
           tiuxetan (IDEC-Y2B8; yttrium Y 90 Zevalin).

        -  Determine the response rate in patients at the completion of rituximab and CHOP and the
           incremental response rate after IDEC-Y2B8.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Correlate serum rituximab levels with response in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  CHOP chemotherapy and rituximab: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin IV,
           vincristine IV, and rituximab IV on day 1 and oral prednisone on days 1-5 (R + CHOP).
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients who have responding or stable disease proceed to radioimmunotherapy.

        -  Radioimmunotherapy: Within 4-7 weeks after the completion of R + CHOP chemotherapy,
           patients receive rituximab IV and an imaging dose of indium In 111 ibritumomab tiuxetan
           IV over 10 minutes on day 1. Patients then undergo whole body gamma imaging scans
           during the first day (2-24 hours) and the second or third day (48-72 hours) after
           injection. In the absence of altered biodistribution, patients receive rituximab IV
           followed by yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan (IDEC-Y2B8; yttrium Y 90 Zevalin) IV
           over 10 minutes on day 8.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 57 patients will be accrued for this study within 2.8 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed mantle cell lymphoma with expression of bcl-1 and CD20

               -  Stage II-IV disease

          -  Measurable or evaluable disease

               -  Measurable disease defined as at least 1 bidimensionally measurable lesion at
                  least 2 cm by imaging scan

               -  A spleen at least 17 cm or having discrete filling defects by CT scan will
                  constitute evaluable disease provided that no explanation other than
                  lymphomatous involvement (e.g., portal hypertension or other liver disease) is
                  likely

          -  No known CNS lymphoma

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy

          -  At least 6 months

        Hematopoietic

          -  WBC greater than 2,500/mm^3*

          -  Platelet count greater than 100,000/mm^3* NOTE: *Unless due to disease in bone marrow

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin less than 1.5 mg/dL (1.5-3.0 mg/dL if due to liver involvement by lymphoma)

          -  ALT and AST no greater than 2.5 times upper limit of normal (unless due to liver
             involvement by lymphoma)

        Renal

          -  Creatinine less than 2.0 mg/dL

          -  Calcium no greater than 11.5 mg/dL

        Cardiovascular

          -  LVEF greater than 45%

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception during and for 1 year after study
             participation

          -  HIV negative

          -  No other malignancy except treated carcinoma in situ of the cervix or squamous cell
             or basal cell skin cancer or any other surgically cured malignancy from which the
             patient has been disease-free for at least 3 years

          -  No other concurrent serious medical condition or active infection that would preclude
             ability to deliver standard prednisone, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and
             vincristine (CHOP) chemotherapy

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  No prior immunotherapy

        Chemotherapy

          -  No prior chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Prior corticosteroids allowed provided the course was no more than 2 weeks in
             duration

        Radiotherapy

          -  No prior radiotherapy

        Surgery

          -  Not specified
      
