TITLE:
J-Pouch Coloanal Anastomosis Compared With Side-to-End Coloanal Anastomosis After Radiation Therapy and Surgery to Remove the Rectum in Treating Patients With Rectal Adenocarcinoma

CONDITION:
Colorectal Cancer

INTERVENTION:
conventional surgery

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: A coloanal anastomosis may be effective in restoring bowel function after
      radiation therapy and surgery to remove the rectum. It is not yet known whether a J-pouch
      coloanal anastomosis is more effective than a side-to-end coloanal anastomosis in restoring
      bowel function in patients with rectal adenocarcinoma who have undergone radiation therapy
      and surgery to remove the rectum.

      PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is studying how well J-pouch coloanal anastomosis
      works compared to side-to-end coloanal anastomosis in treating patients with rectal
      adenocarcinoma who have undergone radiation therapy and surgery to remove the rectum.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare functional outcome in patients with mid- or distal rectal adenocarcinoma when
           treated with J-pouch coloanal anastomosis vs side-to-end coloanal anastomosis after
           preoperative radiotherapy and total mesorectal excision.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these procedures.

        -  Compare anorectal function in patients treated with these procedures.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center and gender. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo total mesorectal excision followed by a J-pouch coloanal
           anastomosis.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo total mesorectal excision followed by a side-to-end coloanal
           anastomosis.

      In both arms, patients receive a temporary ileostomy. The ileostomy is closed after 1 week
      provided recovery is uneventful and no radiological signs of anastomotic leakage are
      detected. If early closure is not possible, the ileostomy is closed after 6-8 weeks.

      Functional outcome, quality of life, and anorectal function are assessed before surgery and
      at 4 and 12 months after surgery.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A minimum of 100 patients (50 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the rectum

               -  T2 or T3 disease

          -  Disease located in the mid- or distal rectum

          -  No evidence of metastatic disease

          -  No preexisting grade III or IV incontinence

          -  Completed preoperative radiotherapy (5 x 5 Gy) before study entry

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  Over 18

        Performance status

          -  WHO 0-2

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic

          -  Not specified

        Renal

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  Working knowledge of the Dutch language

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  No prior chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No prior radiotherapy to the pelvis

        Surgery

          -  No prior colon resection

          -  No prior anorectal surgery

          -  No concurrent abdominoperineal resection
      
