TITLE:
Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation for the Treatment of Poorly Controlled Partial Epilepsy

CONDITION:
Partial Epilepsy

INTERVENTION:
Cadwell High-Speed Magnetoelectric Stimulator

SUMMARY:

      Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) is a non-invasive technique that can be used to
      stimulate brain activity and gather information about brain function. It is very useful when
      studying the areas of the brain related to motor activity (motor cortex, corticospinal
      tract, and corpus callosum).

      Epilepsy is a condition associated with seizures as a result of an over excitable cerebral
      cortex. Despite the introduction of several new antiepileptic medications, less than half of
      the patients diagnosed with partial epilepsy are well controlled. However, studies have
      shown that non-invasive stimulation of the brain can decrease the excitability of the
      cerebral cortex.

      Researchers are interested in the potential therapeutic effects of TMS on patients with
      epilepsy that have responded poorly to standard medication. This study will use TMS to
      decrease the excitability of the areas of the brain responsible for seizures.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The purpose of this protocol is to study the effects of transcranial magnetic stimulation
      (TMS) at 1 Hz on the excitability of the seizure focus in patients with poorly controlled
      epilepsy refractory to pharmacological treatments. 1 Hz TMS is a rate proven to induce long
      term depression in animal models and reported to decrease the excitability of both human and
      animal cerebral cortex.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Age 5 to 60 at entry to protocol.

        History of partial or Complex Partial Epilepsy for two or more years.

        Patients should be on a stable anti-convulsant regimen defined as unchanged medicines and
        dose modifications lower than 20% in the last month. Blood levels of anti-convulsants will
        be measured at the beginning of the study, prior to stimulation and after the study to
        assure that the type and dose of medication will remain constant.

        Seizures not completely responsive to medical treatment (1 or more seizures per week for
        at least 6 months) and patients have failed at least two anti-convulsant regimens in the
        past.

        The patients have a localized seizure focus.

        Epilepsy refractory to medical treatments.

        No pregnant women (will be tested with urine pregnancy test).

        No severe coronary disease.

        No metal anywhere in the cranium except the mouth.

        No intracardiac lines.

        No increased intracranial pressure as expressed by the presence of papilledema.

        No cardiac pacemakers.

        Must not be taking neuroleptic or antidepressant medications.

        No progressive neurologic disease.
      
