TITLE:
Treatment of Chronic Cryptosporidiosis in AIDS Patients

CONDITION:
Cryptosporidiosis

INTERVENTION:
Interleukin-12

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to see if it is safe and effective to add interleukin-12
      (IL-12) to the standard drug combination (paromomycin plus azithromycin) used to treat
      cryptosporidiosis in AIDS patients. Doctors would like to find out if the combination of
      IL-12, paromomycin, and azithromycin is more effective than paromomycin and azithromycin
      alone.

      Cryptosporidiosis is a type of opportunistic (AIDS-related) infection seen in HIV-positive
      patients as their immune systems weaken. It is caused by a parasite that invades the
      intestinal tract, and it can cause watery diarrhea, stomach cramps, an upset stomach, or a
      fever. Antibiotics (paromomycin and azithromycin) are usually used to treat
      cryptosporidiosis. In this study, doctors will look at the effectiveness of using IL-12.
      IL-12 is a type of protein naturally produced by certain types of cells of the immune system
      and is believed to be important for immune function. Doctors hope that IL-12 can help boost
      the immune system in fighting cryptosporidiosis.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Cryptosporidium parvum, an intracellular protozoan parasite, is a frequent cause of chronic
      diarrhea in HIV-infected patients, causing significant morbidity and mortality. Highly
      effective antiparasitic treatment for this infection is not currently available. Paromomycin
      and azithromycin have some efficacy and have been used in combination in a small number of
      patients. Immune reconstitution with highly active antiretroviral therapy appears to be the
      most effective therapy, but this is not possible for all patients. Interferon gamma
      expression is strongly associated with control of cryptosporidiosis, and IL-12 is the
      cytokine primarily responsible for stimulation of interferon gamma expression in vivo. It is
      hoped that treatment with recombinant human IL-12 can result in stimulation of an intestinal
      cytokine response in AIDS patients with cryptosporidiosis and that response combined with
      chemotherapy can lead to the elimination of detectable numbers of Cryptosporidium oocysts
      from the stools.

      All patients receive azithromycin and paromomycin, and patients are randomized to add either
      IL-12 or placebo. IL-12 (or placebo) injections are given twice a week. Patients take their
      study medications for 4 weeks. During this time, they will be asked to record bowel
      movements and any symptoms they experience. Patients return to the clinic at least twice a
      week to receive IL-12 (or placebo) injections. At Weeks 2 and 4, patients are seen by one of
      the principal investigators. Blood samples are obtained for viral load measurements and CD4
      count, as well as routine urinalysis. Patients undergo upper endoscopy with jejunal biopsy
      and colonoscopy with ileal biopsy between Weeks 2 and 4 of therapy for assays of intestinal
      cytokine expression. A final clinic visit occurs 12 weeks post-therapy for a physical exam
      and blood tests.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients may be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are HIV-positive.

          -  Have a CD4 cell count below 150 cells/mm3.

          -  Have been on stable anti-HIV therapy that includes at least 2 nucleoside analogues
             for at least 4 weeks.

          -  Have chronic diarrhea (3 bowel movements a day that are loose or watery, for 5 days
             per week over 3 weeks).

          -  Test positively for Cryptosporidium.

          -  Are at least 18 years old.

          -  Agree to use effective methods of birth control.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Patients will not be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Have any other active opportunistic (AIDS-related) infection.

          -  Require intravenous (IV) fluids.

          -  Have a history of an allergy to certain medications, such as colony-stimulating
             factors (G-CSF or GM-CSF) or a type of antibiotic.

          -  Are pregnant.
      
