TITLE:
A Phase II Study of 5-Fluorouracil Administered as a One Hour Infusion in Combination With Calcium Leucovorin and Interferon Alpha-2A in Advanced Colorectal Cancer

CONDITION:
Colorectal Neoplasms

INTERVENTION:
5-fluorouracil

SUMMARY:

      This protocol will evaluate the activity of 5-Fluorouracil (FUra) given as a 1 hour infusion
      in combination with leucovorin (LV) and interferon IFN alpha-2a in patients with advanced,
      measurable colorectal cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This protocol will evaluate the activity of 5-Fluorouracil (FUra) given as a 1 hour infusion
      in combination with leucovorin (LV) and interferon IFN alpha-2a in patients with advanced,
      measurable colorectal cancer. IFN alpha-2a will be given at 5 million U/m(2) SC days 1-6;
      LV, 200 mg/m(2), will be given as a short infusion over 30 minutes days 2-6, followed
      immediately by a 1 hour IV infusion of FUra days 2-6. The starting dose of FUra will be 425
      mg/m(2)/d(1). Cycles will be repeated at three week intervals provided that the granulocyte
      count and platelet count have recovered to &gte; 1200/microL and &gte; 80,000/microL,
      respectively, and all non-hematologic toxicity has resolved. The dose of FUra will be
      adjusted according to individual tolerance. Preliminary experience with FUra given as a 1
      hour infusion suggests that it is less toxic. The primary goal of this study is to determine
      if this less toxic regimen retains clinical antitumor activity. FUra plasma samples will be
      obtained the initial cycle at 50 and 55 minutes during the first 1 hour infusion of FUra to
      permit documentation of achieved plasma levels and to permit correlation between FUra
      pharmacokinetics and clinical toxicity and/or response. Pharmacokinetic sampling will be
      repeated if the dose of FUra is increased or decreased in subsequent cycles.

      Patients will be stratified according to whether or not they have received prior adjuvant
      chemotherapy. A two-stage design will be employed for patients with no prior chemotherapy:
      If less than or equal to 4 responses are seen among the initial 20 previously untreated
      patients, accrual will cease. If greater than or equal to 5 responses are seen in the
      initial 20 patients, however, accrual will be expanded to 40 patients.

      Fourteen patients who have received prior adjuvant chemotherapy (completing it at least 6
      months prior to study entry) or have received prior FUra only as a radiation sensitizer will
      be entered. If no responses are seen, accrual to this cohort will cease. If greater than or
      equal to 1 response is seen, accrual may be expanded to 24 patients.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

        Unresectable primary colorectal adenocarcinoma that is metastatic or recurrent.

        Objectively measurable disease required.

        No cerebral metastases.

        PRIOR/CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic Therapy:

        No history of intolerance to interferon alfa (IFN-A).

        At least 4 weeks since immunotherapy and recovered.

        Chemotherapy: No prior chemotherapy for metastatic or recurrent disease. At least 6 months
        since adjuvant chemotherapy with fluorouracil (5-FU) in combination with levamisole,
        leucovorin (CF), or IFN-A Interval waived for 5-FU (with or without CF) as a
        radiosensitizer only . No dose-limiting toxicity with prior 5-FU.

        Endocrine Therapy: Not specified

        Radiotherapy: At least 2 weeks since palliative radiotherapy and recovered. Prior
        definitive pelvic or whole or upper abdominal radiotherapy allowed in the absence of
        current radiation enteritis.

        Surgery: Prior surgery allowed with adequate healing/recovery

        Patient Characteristics:

        Age: 18 and over.

        Performance status: ECOG 0 or 1.

        Hematopoietic:

        AGC at least 2,000.

        Platelets at least 100,000.

        Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than 2.0 mg/dL

        Renal: Creatinine no greater than 2.0 mg/dL

        Cardiovascular:

        No MI within the past year.

        No active ischemic heart disease.

        No NYHA class III/IV status.

        No symptomatic arrhythmia.

        OTHER:

        No requirement for pharmacologic steroid doses for inflammatory or autoimmune disorders.
        Physiologic replacement doses of steroids allowed.

        No concurrent cimetidine or oxypurinol.

        No HIV antibody.

        No history of seizure disorder.

        No active infection or other serious concurrent medical illness that would preclude
        treatment.

        No second malignancy within 3 years except curatively treated: In situ carcinoma of
        cervix, Basal cell carcinoma of the skin.

        No pregnant or nursing women.

        Effective contraception required of fertile patients.
      
