TITLE:
Evaluation for NCI Surgery Branch Clinical Studies

CONDITION:
Synovial Cell Cancer

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      Background:

      The NCI Surgery Branch has developed experimental therapies that involve taking white blood
      cells from patients' tumor or from their blood, growing them in the laboratory in large
      numbers, and then giving the cells back to the patient.

      Objective:

      This study will allow patients to under screening and evaluation for participation in NCI
      Surgery Branch Protocols

      Eligibility:

      Patients must meet the minimum eligibility criteria for an NCI surgery Branch Treatment
      Protocol

      Design

      Patients will undergo testing and evaluations as required by the appropriate NCI Surgery
      Branch Treatment protocol
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Background:

      Potential research candidates undergo thorough screening including laboratory tests, scans,
      x-rays and review of pathology slides to determine initial eligibility for Surgery Branch
      research protocols.

      Objectives:

      To permit evaluation of patients referred to the NCI Surgery Branch in order to identify
      individuals who will be suitable candidates for Surgery Branch clinical research protocols.

      To assess frequency of HLA type and expression of neo antigens in malignant tumors across
      the population of cancer patients undergoing screening for NCI Surgery Branch Protocols.

      Eligibility:

      Patient suspected of having, or with biopsy proven malignant disease.

      Patient, parent or guardian (if a minor), is able to provide informed consent.

      Design:

      Patients enrolled on this protocol will be evaluated by NCI Surgery Branch physicians to
      determine the individual's suitability for participation in a clinical research protocol. An
      accrual ceiling of 6000 patients has been set to meet the screening needs of the Surgery
      Branch.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to 80 Years
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Patients suspected of having, or with biopsy proven malignant disease.

        Patient, or their legal guardians (if the patient is less than 18 years of age), is able
        to provide informed consent.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:
      
