TITLE:
Apheresis to Obtain Plasma or White Blood Cells for Laboratory Studies

CONDITION:
Leukopheresis

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This study will collect blood plasma and white blood cells for laboratory research using a
      procedure called apheresis. Apheresis is a method of collecting larger quantities of certain
      blood components than can safely be collected through a simple blood draw.

      Patients 7 years of age and older with a parasitic infection or condition associated with a
      parasitic infection (i.e., elevated levels of IgE antibodies or of a type of white cell
      called eosinophils) who are currently enrolled in a NIH clinical research protocol may be
      eligible for this study. Relatives of patients and normal healthy volunteers will also be
      enrolled. Candidates will have a medical history, physical examination and blood tests.
      Individuals weighing less than 25 kilograms (55 pounds) may not participate.

      Participants will undergo one of the following two apheresis procedures:

        -  Automated pheresis Whole blood is drawn through a needle placed in an arm vein and
           circulated through a cell separator machine. The plasma (liquid part of the blood) and
           white cells are extracted, and the red cells are re-infused into the donor through a
           needle in the other arm. The procedure takes 1 to 2 hours.

        -  Manual pheresis Whole blood is drawn through a needle placed in an arm vein and
           circulated through the cell separator machine. The red blood cells are separated from
           the rest of the blood and returned to the donor through the same needle. Usually only
           one needle stick is required and the procedure takes from 30 to 45 minutes. This method
           is used only in individuals who weigh less than 35 kg (77 pounds).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      In order to carry out in vitro research procedures on the plasma or leukocyte components of
      blood, it is often necessary to obtain larger quantities of plasma, leukocytes, or platelets
      than can be safely obtained by simple phlebotomy. These components can be easily and safely
      obtained using apheresis procedures in the Clinical Center Apheresis Unit. This protocol is
      specifically designed to conform to the requirements of the Apheresis Unit for donors to
      have apheresis procedures (greater than 7 years of age and greater than or equal to 25 kg)
      but the protocol in itself is not a research protocol. Donors must first be admitted to
      another approved clinical research protocol of the NIAID before they may have the apheresis
      procedures described in this protocol.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 7 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

          -  Enrolled on another LPD protocol.

          -  Weight greater than or equal to 25 kg

          -  Willingness to participate

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

          -  Age less than 7 years

          -  Weight less than 25 kg

          -  Cardiovascular instability

          -  Hct less than 30

          -  Inadequate venous access

          -  PTT or PT greater than 1.5 normal

          -  Pregnancy

          -  Other condition which the attending physician or Apheresis Unit staff considers a
             contraindication to the procedure

          -  For Hetastarch procedure

          -  Hypertension

          -  Evidence of fluid retention
      
