TITLE:
A Phase I Study of the Safety and Immunogenicity of Rgp 120/HIV-1IIIB Vaccine in HIV-1 Seropositive Adult Volunteers

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
rgp120/HIV-1IIIB

SUMMARY:

      To test the safety and immunogenicity of rgp 120/HIV-1IIIB vaccine in HIV-1 seropositive
      adult patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have the following:

          -  Stage 1 or 2 Walter Reed clinical staging of HIV infected individuals.

          -  The ability to understand and sign a written informed consent form, which must be
             obtained prior to study entry.

          -  Be available for 24 weeks so that follow up may be completed.

          -  Qualify for care as Department of Defense health care beneficiary.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  Prior history of clinically significant cardiac, pulmonary, hepatic, renal,
             neurologic or autoimmune disease, other than HIV-1 infection, and in less than
             average general health as determined by a medical history, physical examination, and
             the required laboratory test results.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Corticosteroids or other known immunosuppressive drugs.

          -  Any experimental agents.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Prior history of clinically significant cardiac, pulmonary, hepatic, renal,
             neurologic or autoimmune disease, other than HIV-1 infection, and in less than
             average general health as determined by a medical history, physical examination, and
             the required laboratory test results.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 30 days of study entry:

          -  Zidovudine or other anti-retroviral agents.
      
