TITLE:
Lung Disease Associated With Rheumatoid Arthritis

CONDITION:
Pulmonary Fibrosis

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a condition in which the lungs of a patient become scarred and
      fibrous. It has been known to occur in as many as 40% of patients diagnosed with rheumatoid
      arthritis (RA). The cause of the pulmonary fibrosis in patients with RA is unknown.

      Patients participating in this study will undergo a series of tests and examinations before
      and throughout the study. The tests include blood and urine tests, electrical measures of
      heart function (ECG), chest x-rays, CAT scans, nuclear medicine scans, breathing tests,
      exercise tests, and fiberoptic bronchoscopy.

      The goals of this study are to:

        1. Estimate how common pulmonary fibrosis is in patients with rheumatoid arthritis,

        2. Describe the natural course of pulmonary fibrosis in patients with rheumatoid
           arthritis,

        3. Estimate the survival rate of patients with pulmonary fibrosis and rheumatoid
           arthritis, and

        4. Learn more about the factors that contribute to the development or progression fibrotic
           lung disease.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Pulmonary fibrosis is an extra-articular manifestation of rheumatoid arthritis whose
      etiology remains uncertain. Although the clinical course of many individuals with this
      disorder can mimic that observed in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, the natural
      history of fibrotic lung disease associated with rheumatoid arthritis remains largely
      undefined. It is the intent of this clinical protocol to (1) estimate the prevalence of
      pulmonary fibrosis in individuals with rheumatoid arthritis, (2) define the natural history
      of pulmonary fibrosis in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, (3) estimate the survival rate
      of individuals with pulmonary fibrosis and rheumatoid arthritis, and (4) examine pulmonary
      physiologic, radiologic, and biochemical markers that predict the development or progression
      of fibrotic lung disease.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 21 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Non-smokers (never smoked or no smoking within the previous 2 years) who are 21 years of
        age or older with any of the following:

        Rheumatoid arthritis with biopsy-proven pulmonary fibrosis or;

        Rheumatoid arthritis only, or;

        Biopsy-proven idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) less than 1L.

        Inhalational exposure to fibrogenic fibers or dusts (e.g., asbestos, silica, coal,
        beryllium).

        Chronic cardiopulmonary disorders other than pulmonary fibrosis.

        Other collagen vascular disorders (e.g., systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma,
        polymyositis, mixed connective tissue disease).

        Non-rheumatoid arthritis.

        Viral infections associated with pulmonary fibrosis (e.g., hepatitis B, hepatitis C, human
        immunodeficiency virus).

        Uncorrectable bleeding diathesis.

        Pregnancy or lactation.
      
