TITLE:
Analysis of Heart Muscle Function in Patients With Heart Disease and Normal Volunteers

CONDITION:
Cardiomyopathy, Hypertrophic

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      Myocardial ischemia is a heart condition in which not enough blood supply and oxygen reaches
      the heart muscle. Damage to the major blood vessels of the heart (coronary artery disease),
      minor blood vessels of the heart (microvascular heart disease), or damage to the heart
      muscle (hypertrophic cardiomyopathy) can cause myocardial ischemia. Any of theses three
      conditions can cause patients to experience chest pain and other symptoms as well as cause
      the heart to function improperly.

      In order to detect myocardial ischemia researchers can use tests to measure the movement of
      the walls of the heart. Walls receiving inadequate supplies of blood often move less and
      occasionally move in the opposite direction. Some of the tests may require patients to
      receive injections of radioactive tracers. The radioactive material acts to enhance 3
      dimensional pictures of the heart and helps to identify areas of ischemia.

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether 3-dimensional imaging (tomography) with
      radioactive tracers can provide more important information about heart wall function than
      routine diagnostic tests.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      We propose to assess regional myocardial function using gated blood pool imaging acquired by
      a tomographic technique at rest and during stress in patients with myocardial ischemia
      (coronary artery disease, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and microvascular angina). Gender
      differences in response to exercise and pharmacologic stress will also be evaluated. Normal
      subjects will be studied in order to establish a control database. Current methods of gated
      blood pool studies use planar imaging, with its attendant limitations; poor resolution and
      inadequate separation of the myocardial segments, only one view assessed during exercise and
      superimposition of overlying structures. Tomographic imaging has the advantages of
      reconstructing 3-dimensional data of the entire heart with the ability to improve segmental
      resolution and separate overlapping structures, potentially resulting in increased
      sensitivity and specificity for detection of disease.

      The role of pharmacologic stress will be assessed by comparison with exercise stress, in
      order to validate its use in subjects unable to exercise and identify gender related
      differences. Quantitative measures of regional wall motion obtained from tomography will be
      compared to regions of prior myocardial infarction (if present), and with other modalities
      for evaluating cardiac structure and function. The diagnostic and prognostic value of
      tomographic wall motion analysis will be studied in patients with myocardial ischemia, with
      special emphasis on correlation between physiologic variables of coronary blood flow and
      metabolic function.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Patients with known coronary artery disease (obstruction of greater than or equal to 50%
        in at least one major coronary artery).

        Patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

        Patients with microvascular angina.

        No unstable angina.

        No hepatic or renal failure.

        Infective endocarditis

        No primary valvular disease.

        No congenital heart disease.

        No pregnant or breast feeding women.
      
