TITLE:
Botulinum Toxin for the Treatment of Involuntary Movement Disorders

CONDITION:
Chorea

INTERVENTION:
Botulinum Toxin

SUMMARY:

      Botulism is a severe form of food poisoning caused by bacteria. This bacteria produces
      several toxins one of which is botulinum toxin A. This toxin causes the symptoms of food
      poisoning. Small amounts of botulinum toxin A have been used to treat speech disorders such
      as stuttering and problems with the muscles of the eyes.

      The study examines the effectiveness of botulinum toxin as treatment for a variety of
      movement disorders. The goals of the study are to refine the technique of treatment to
      provide the best results, to improve the understanding of how botulinum toxin works on
      movement disorders, and find other conditions that may be treatable with botulinum toxin.

      In addition, researchers also plan to study the possible use of botulinum toxin F alone and
      in combination with botulinum toxin A in patients who do not respond to botulinum A toxin
      treatment.<TAB>
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The efficacy of botulinum toxin (BTX) has now been demonstrated for a variety of diseases
      associated with involuntary muscle spasms or movement. The application of botulinum toxin
      therapy to movement disorders requires treatment tailored to the individual patient and
      specific techniques of injection. This protocol 1) provides for training of physicians in
      the use of botulinum toxin and 2) allows us to provide botulinum toxin injections for
      patients participating in other studies on the physiology of sensorimotor systems and
      physiological effects of botulinum toxin. Patients can be in the study at any one time
      either for the teaching value or for participation in other protocols, or both.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 4 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Patients will be eligible for participation if they have a disorder that, in the judgment
        of the treating physician, might be amenable to treatment with BTX.

        Applicable disorders include but are not limited to dystonia, hemifacial spasm,
        blepharospasm, tremor, spasmodic dysphonia, tics, vocal fold tremor, oral lingual
        dyskinesia, tardive dyskinesia, spasticity, and spasmodic dysphonia.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Patients will be excluded form participation if:

          1. They are pregnant or breastfeeding, for the duration of the condition.

          2. They require treatment with an aminoglycoside antibiotic, until treatment is
             complete.

          3. For laryngeal injections, they have a paradoxical vocal fold movement with
             intermittent stridor due to either gastroesophageal reflux or emotional disorders.
      
