TITLE:
A Study to Evaluate the Effects of Anti-HIV Drugs in HIV-Positive Patients Who Also Have Hepatitis C Infection

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This study evaluates patients infected with both HIV and Hepatitis C virus (HCV) who are
      receiving anti-HIV drugs. The purpose of this study is to learn more about HCV infection in
      patients whose HIV blood level decreases to less than 500 copies/ml.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Sixty naive patients with HIV and confirmed hepatitis C who are co-enrolled in another AACTG
      antiretroviral study that involves the testing of HAART (Highly Active Antiretroviral
      Therapy) are entered on this prospective study. Patients who are defined as naive have never
      received specific, active antiretroviral agents that sustain viral suppression below the
      limit of detection (500 copies/ml) or have received those agents for only a very limited
      time. HAART is defined as therapy which is likely to result in HIV-1 RNA plasma levels less
      than 500 copies/ml for at least 16 weeks. Plasma is collected and evaluated during the study
      for additional quantitative measurements: Hepatitis C virus (HCV) by HCV RNA PCR and HIV-1
      RNA levels. All evaluations for HIV-1 RNA are obtained from the co-enrolled study at the
      following time points: Pre-entry, entry, at least 2 measurements before Week 16, Week 16,
      and at least 1 measurement after Week 16.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients may be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are HIV-positive and have Hepatitis C.

          -  Have an HIV blood level of at least 2,500 copies/ml 30 days before study entry.

          -  Are co-enrolled in an active adult AIDS clinical trial using anti-HIV treatment.

          -  Are at least 13 years of age (parent or guardian consent required if under 18).

        Exclusion Criteria

        Patients will not be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Have liver disease.

          -  Have cancer requiring chemotherapy.

          -  Have Hepatitis B.

          -  Abuse alcohol and/or drugs.

          -  Have received certain antiretroviral (anti-HIV) drugs in the past.
      
