TITLE:
Evaluation of the Causes and Disease Processes of Chronic Lung Disease

CONDITION:
Lung Disease

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      Chronic lung diseases are disorders associated with abnormalities in any of the structures
      involved in the process of breathing and bringing oxygen into the lungs and blood. This
      includes abnormalities in the airways, lungs, blood vessels in and around the lungs, and the
      tissue covering the lungs (pleura).

      The purpose of this research study is to evaluate patients referred to the Cardiovascular
      and Pulmonary Branch of the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) in order to;

        1. <TAB>Develop a better understanding of the causes and disease processes involved in
           disorders of the lungs

        2. <TAB>Identify patients eligible to participate in other P-CCMB research studies
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The chronic lung diseases are those disorders associated with functional and/or structural
      derangement to the alveolar structures, airways, pulmonary blood vessels, pleura and/or
      mediastinum. The purpose of this project is to permit the comprehensive evaluation of
      patients referred to the Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Branch of the National Heart, Lung,
      and Blood Institute (NHLBI) in order to: (1) develop an understanding of the etiology and
      pathogenesis of these disorders; and (2) identify individuals who will be suitable
      candidates for other NHLBI protocols. Testing and procedures will only be performed when
      medically indicated for the purposes of making a diagnosis or obtaining information likely
      to be useful in the management of the subjects' disease or condition.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 9 Years to 90 Years
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Symptoms consistent with pulmonary disease.

        May have family history of lung disease.

        Patients with diseases of organs with known association with lung disease.

        Ranging in age from 9 to 90 years old.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Persons with no clinical evidence of lung disease.
      
