TITLE:
A Phase I Safety and Immunogenicity Trial of Live Recombinant Canarypox ALVAC-HIV (vCP205) and HIV-1 SF-2 rgp120 in HIV-1 Uninfected Volunteers to Evaluate Accelerated Vaccine Schedules

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
ALVAC-HIV MN120TMG (vCP205)

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of an accelerated schedule of recombinant
      canarypox vaccine ALVAC-HIV MN120TMG (vCP205) versus control followed by boost with
      rgp120/HIV-1 SF2 vaccine in HIV-negative volunteers.

      Frequent injections of ALVAC-HIV vCP205 may result in more rapid induction of cytotoxic
      T-lymphocytes. This trial will evaluate whether an accelerated vaccination schedule can
      produce immunological responses comparable to those obtained in other trials of ALVAC-HIV
      vCP205.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Frequent injections of ALVAC-HIV vCP205 may result in more rapid induction of cytotoxic
      T-lymphocytes. This trial will evaluate whether an accelerated vaccination schedule can
      produce immunological responses comparable to those obtained in other trials of ALVAC-HIV
      vCP205.

      Volunteers are randomized to receive immunization with either ALVAC-HIV vCP205 or ALVAC-RG
      rabies glycoprotein (vCP65) at days 0, 7, 14, and 21, followed by boost with rgp120/HIV-1
      SF2 at days 28 and 84. A third cohort receives ALVAC-HIV vCP65 on the same schedule followed
      by boost with placebo.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Volunteers must have:

          -  Normal history and physical exam.

          -  Negative ELISA and Western blot for HIV.

          -  CD4 count >= 400 cells/mm3.

          -  Normal urine dipstick with esterase and nitrite.

          -  Lower-risk sexual behavior.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Volunteers with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Positive hepatitis B surface antigen.

          -  Medical or psychiatric condition (such as recent suicidal ideation or present
             psychosis) that precludes compliance.

          -  Occupational responsibilities that preclude compliance.

          -  Active syphilis. NOTE: Subjects with serology documented to be a false positive or
             due to a remote (> 6 months) treated infection are eligible.

          -  Active tuberculosis. NOTE: Subjects with a positive PPD and a normal chest x-ray
             showing no evidence of TB and not requiring isoniazid therapy are eligible.

          -  Allergy to egg products or neomycin.

          -  Occupational exposure to birds.

        Volunteers with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of immunodeficiency, chronic illness, autoimmune disease, or use of
             immunosuppressive medications.

          -  History of anaphylaxis or other serious adverse reactions to vaccines.

          -  Prior immunization against rabies.

          -  History of serious allergic reaction to any substance, requiring hospitalization or
             emergent medical care (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome, bronchospasm, or hypotension).

          -  Prior psychiatric condition (such as history of suicide attempts or past psychosis)
             that precludes compliance.

          -  History of cancer unless there has been surgical excision that is considered to have
             achieved cure.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Live attenuated vaccines within 60 days prior to study entry. NOTE: Medically
             indicated killed or subunit vaccines (e.g., influenza, pneumococcal) do not exclude
             if administered at least 2 weeks from HIV immunizations.

          -  Experimental agents within 30 days prior to study entry.

          -  Prior HIV vaccines.

          -  Prior rabies immunization.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Blood products or immunoglobulin within 6 months prior to study entry. Identifiable
             high-risk behavior for HIV infection, such as

          -  injection drug use within past 12 months.

          -  higher- or intermediate-risk sexual behavior.
      
