TITLE:
Magnetic Resonance Imaging of the Blood Vessels of the Heart

CONDITION:
Heart Disease

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This study is directed at evaluating patients with "myocardial ischemia" or poor blood
      supply to the heart muscle due to coronary artery disease. The major objective of this study
      is to determine the level of safety and effectiveness of magnetic resonance imaging at
      diagnosing coronary artery disease.

      In addition, this study will allow researchers at the National Institutes of Health to see a
      broad spectrum of disease, preserve clinical skills, and stimulate future ideas for clinical
      research....
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This is a teaching protocol. It is in a format for training physicians in the laboratory in
      cardiovascular MRI techniques necessary for our research protocols. It helps provide
      experience necessary to develop and maintain our clinical expertise with cardiovascular MRI
      methods. It also provides physicians in the region access to this technology.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Inclusion Criteria for All Arms of the Protocol

          1. Known or suspected cardiovascular disease.

          2. 18 years of age and older.

          3. Able to provide informed consent.

        Exclusion Criteria for All Arms of the Protocol:

        Patients with a contraindication to MRI scanning will be excluded. These contraindications
        include patients with the following devices:

          1. Central nervous system aneurysm clips

          2. Implanted neural stimulator

          3. Implanted cardiac pacemaker or defibrillator

          4. Cochlear implant

          5. Ocular foreign body (e.g. metal shavings)

          6. Implanted insulin pump

          7. Metal shrapnel or bullet.

        In addition the following patient groups will be excluded:

          1. Pregnant women (Patients who are uncertain as to whether they are pregnant will be
             required to have a screening urine or blood pregnancy test)

          2. Patients with symptoms of myocardial ischemia occurring despite maximally tolerated
             doses of oral antianginal therapy and intravenous nitroglycerin

        Furthermore, the following patient groups will be excluded from studies involving the
        administration of MRI contrast agents:

          1. lactating women unless they are willing to discard breast milk for 24 hours

          2. renal disease (estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] less than 30 ml/min/1.73
             m(2) body surface area)

        The eGFR will be used to estimate renal function if reported by the laboratory. Otherwise,
        estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) can be based on the Modification of Diet in
        Renal Disease (MDRD) study equation (see below) in subjects with stable renal function.
        This formula is not applicable to patients with acute renal insufficiency:

        eGFR (ml/min/l.73 m(2))= 175 x (serum creatinine)-l.l54 x (age)-0.203 x 0.742 (if the
        subject is female) x 1.212 (if the subject is black)

        Additional Exclusion Criteria for Dobutamine MRI

          1. Myocardial infarction within 48 hours.

          2. Uncontrolled heart failure

          3. Severe hypertension (SBP greater than 200, DBP greater than 110)

          4. Atrial fibrillation

          5. Ventricular tachycardia

          6. Frequent PVC's (more than 1 every 10 heart beats or nonsustained ventricular
             tachycardia (greater than 4)

          7. Patients with narrow angle glaucoma or known or suspected severe bladder outlet
             obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy will not receive atropine

        Additional Exclusion Criteria for Vasodilator Stress MRI

          1. Myocardial infarction within 48 hours.

          2. Patients that are not considered medically stable by their physician (for example,
             severe heart failure that makes it difficult to breathe while lying flat or severe
             problems with heart rhythms).

          3. Patients with 2nd or 3rd degree heart block are excluded from receiving the medicine
             adenosine (abnormalities that can be seen on your ECG).
      
