TITLE:
A Study of Pentamidine Plus Dapsone in the Prevention of Pneumocystis Carinii Pneumonia (PCP) in HIV-Infected Patients Who Cannot Take Trimethoprim or Sulfonamides

CONDITION:
Pneumonia, Pneumocystis Carinii

INTERVENTION:
Pentamidine isethionate

SUMMARY:

      To compare the safety and efficacy of aerosolized pentamidine and dapsone in the prevention
      of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) in high-risk HIV-infected patients who are
      intolerant to trimethoprim and/or sulfonamides.

      Both aerosolized pentamidine and dapsone have been shown to prevent PCP, but both drugs
      cause side effects. This study attempts to determine which drug is more efficacious as
      prophylaxis against PCP in patients who cannot tolerate trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Both aerosolized pentamidine and dapsone have been shown to prevent PCP, but both drugs
      cause side effects. This study attempts to determine which drug is more efficacious as
      prophylaxis against PCP in patients who cannot tolerate trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole.

      Patients are evenly divided between two treatment arms to receive either aerosolized
      pentamidine every 4 weeks or dapsone orally three times weekly. Follow-up data is collected
      every 3 months, and patients are clinically evaluated every 6 months. Patients who develop
      PCP or a severe or persistent study drug toxicity may be switched to the alternative study
      drug at the clinician's discretion. Average duration of follow-up is 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV infection.

          -  CD4 count <= 200 cells/mm3 or <= 15 percent of total lymphocytes OR a history of
             prior PCP.

          -  History of intolerance to trimethoprim and/or sulfonamides.

          -  No active pneumocystosis. Patient or guardian must sign informed consent. Pregnant
             patients are eligible at the clinician's discretion. Patients who do not meet
             required laboratory values may be eligible at the discretion of the clinician.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Any medication with potential anti-PCP activity.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  Treatment-limiting reaction to pentamidine or dapsone.
      
