TITLE:
A Study of AS-101 in Patients With AIDS or AIDS Related Complex (ARC)

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
AS-101

SUMMARY:

      To determine the toxic effects of AS-101 at various doses in patients with AIDS or AIDS
      related complex. Also to determine the effect of various doses of AS-101 on immune functions
      and the occurrence of infections in these patients. AIDS is a viral disease that is
      characterized by a loss of some immune function and the development of frequent, eventually
      fatal, infectious diseases. Although zidovudine (AZT) has prolonged survival in some
      patients with AIDS, AZT is quite toxic and there is a need for more effective and less toxic
      drugs. AS-101 is a synthetic organic compound containing the metal tellurium that is being
      tested because in laboratory studies it improved immune functions.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      AIDS is a viral disease that is characterized by a loss of some immune function and the
      development of frequent, eventually fatal, infectious diseases. Although zidovudine (AZT)
      has prolonged survival in some patients with AIDS, AZT is quite toxic and there is a need
      for more effective and less toxic drugs. AS-101 is a synthetic organic compound containing
      the metal tellurium that is being tested because in laboratory studies it improved immune
      functions.

      Patients are given intravenous infusions of AS-101 3 times a week for 12 weeks. The first
      group of 6 patients receives a dose that did not cause toxic effects in a preliminary study.
      If no adverse effects occur, the next 6 patients receive a higher dose level and so on,
      until an optimum dose has been reached. The investigators will determine the optimum dose
      based on the type and severity of adverse effects experienced by the patients on the study
      and by the effect of the drug on the immune function of the patient and its effect on the
      HIV infection. Samples of blood and urine are taken periodically during the study and skin
      tests are performed 3 times to aid in the evaluation of AS-101. Patients receive standard
      treatment for any infections that develop during the study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Inhaled pentamidine for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) prophylaxis.

          -  Ketoconazole.

          -  Standard outpatient therapy for infections developing during the trial.

          -  Oral acyclovir for up to 7 days.

        Patients must have:

          -  Antibody to HIV by ELISA.

          -  AIDS or AIDS related complex (ARC).

          -  T4 cell count < 400 cells/mm3 on 2 determinations at least 72 hours apart.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Inhaled pentamidine for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) prophylaxis.

          -  Ketoconazole.

          -  Oral acyclovir for up to 7 days.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  Active opportunistic infection or malignancy requiring concurrent treatment.

          -  Serious medical problems, such as diabetes, renal disease, ASHD, or hypertension,
             which would complicate interpretation of treatment results.

          -  Transfusion requirements exceeding 2 transfusions per month in order to achieve
             hemoglobin > 9 g/dl.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Treatment for active opportunistic infection or malignancy.

          -  Systemic antiviral preparations.

          -  Immunosuppressive agents.

          -  Immunostimulation therapy.

          -  Specific therapy for Kaposi's sarcoma or other malignancies.

        Concurrent Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  More than 2 units of red blood cell transfusions per month in order to achieve
             hemoglobin > 8 g/dl.

        Patients unlikely or unable, for reasons such as distance from the hospital or
        psychological considerations, to comply with the requirements of the protocol, especially
        in regard to regular attendance for treatment, are excluded.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Systemic antiviral preparations.

          -  Isoprinosine.

          -  Excluded with 1 month of study entry:

          -  Immunosuppressive agents.

          -  Immunomodulators.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Immunostimulation therapy, such as BCG vaccine.

        Active drug or alcohol abuse.
      
