TITLE:
Magnetic Stimulation of the Human Nervous System

CONDITION:
Demyelinating Disease

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) is a non-invasive technique to gather information
      about brain function. It is very useful when studying the areas of the brain related to
      motor activity (motor cortex, corticospinal tract, spinal cord and nerve roots). The
      procedure is conducted by transmitting a magnetic signal into the brain to stimulate an area
      of the body. Electrodes (small pieces of metal taped to areas of the body) are used in order
      to measure electrical activity. A magnetic signal is sent from a metal instrument held close
      to the patient's head, to an area of the brain responsible for motor activity of a certain
      area of the body. The electrodes pick up and record the electrical activity in the muscles.

      This study will employ the use of TMS to diagnose neurological disorders that affect the
      motor cortex or the corticospinal tract. Normal subjects are sometimes studied to
      investigate normal activity of the nervous system and to train doctors in clinical
      neurophysiology and electrodiagnostic medicine at the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This protocol outlines the use of magnetic stimulation as a diagnostic tool in patients with
      suspected dysfunction of central motor pathways or nerve roots and as a tool to localize and
      characterize suspected corticospinal abnormalities in neurologic disorders and systemic
      disorders with neurological manifestations. The protocol is intended for clinical use.

      Transcranial magnetic stimulation has been used for diagnosis of neurologic disorders since
      1987. The principles of magnetic stimulation and its use for diagnosis are described in
      current textbooks of clinical neurophysiology as a routine procedure and should be included
      in the training program for fellows in clinical neurophysiology and electrodiagnostic
      medicine at NIH.

      The magnetic stimuli are to be given as single or paired pulses at repetition rates less
      than 1 per second.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Adult patients with weakness or motor dysfunction.

        Children and adolescents with corticospinal tract signs.

        Normal volunteers, adults.

        Normal volunteers, children aged 4-17.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Pregnant women.

        Subjects with implanted devices: pacemakers, medication pumps or defibrillators.

        Subjects with metal in the cranium except the mouth.

        Subjects with intracardiac lines.

        Normal subjects with history of seizures.
      
