TITLE:
Study of Psoriatic Arthritis

CONDITION:
Psoriasis

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This study will examine the genetic and immune factors involved in the cause and development
      of psoriatic arthritis-a disease of both the skin and joints. It will describe the medical
      features and natural course of the disease and determine participants' eligibility for
      experimental treatment protocols.

      Patients with known or suspected psoriatic arthritis 5 years of age and older and their
      relatives may enroll in this study. Patients will be evaluated with a medical history and
      physical examination, electrocardiogram, blood tests and X-rays. Additional procedures may
      include:

        1. Leukapheresis-Collection of white blood cells for genetic analysis. Whole blood is
           collected through a needle placed in an arm vein. The blood circulates through a
           machine that separates it into its components. The plasma is removed and the cells are
           returned to the body through a second needle placed in the other arm.

        2. Skin biopsy-Removal of a small skin sample for microscopic analysis. An area of skin is
           numbed with an anesthetic and one to three small circular portions (about 1/4 inch in
           diameter) are cut and removed.

        3. Joint aspiration-Removal of a small sample of synovial fluid (lubricating joint fluid).
           An area of skin around the biopsy site is numbed with an anesthetic, and a needle is
           inserted into the joint to pull out a small fluid sample.

        4. Synovial needle biopsy-Removal of a small sample of synovial tissue (tissue lining the
           joint). An area of skin around the biopsy site is numbed with an anesthetic and a large
           needle is inserted into the joint. A smaller needle attached to a syringe is then
           placed inside the larger needle and small pieces of synovial tissue are removed.

        5. Genetic studies-Saliva and blood samples will be collected for gene testing. Saliva is
           collected by rinsing the mouth with a tablespoon of salt water and spitting into a test
           tube.

      Patients will be followed once or twice a year and may be evaluated for participation in an
      experimental treatment study.

      Participating relatives of patients will fill out a brief medical history questionnaire and
      provide a DNA sample (blood sample or tissue swab from the inside of the cheek).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients with known or suspected psoriatic arthritis will be evaluated at the Clinical
      Center. Studies will include characterization of the clinical and laboratory features of the
      disease, research studies of the natural history and pathogenesis, genetic studies, and
      determination of the patient's eligibility to enter experimental therapeutic protocols.
      Patients may be asked to contribute blood, skin or synovial membrane samples for immunologic
      and genetic research studies.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Psoriatic arthritis (proven or suspected) or;

        Family history of psoriasis or psoriatic arthritis (i.e. family members of patients with
        psoriasis or psoriatic arthritis); and

        Willingness and ability of the subject or guardian to give informed consent.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Concomitant medical problems which would confound the interpretation of immunological
        studies.

        Concomitant medical, surgical or other conditions for which inadequate facilities or funds
        are available to support their care at the NIH.
      
