TITLE:
Evaluation of Women With Endocrine and Reproductive-Related Conditions

CONDITION:
Endocrine Disease

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This study was designed to allow inpatient and outpatient evaluation of women with a variety
      of reproductive and endocrine-related disorders for purposes of research and physician
      education.

      The evaluations may include ultrasound examinations, blood, saliva, and/or urine samples. In
      some cases, specific laboratory or X-ray studies will be performed to confirm the diagnosis
      or assist in the treatment of the patient. These additional tests will be conducted within
      the guidelines of current gynecologic practice. In some cases, the patient will receive
      medical or surgical treatment for their disorder.

      The purpose of this study is to provide an opportunity for physicians to evaluate women with
      medical conditions of reproduction. These evaluations and treatments will support clinical
      training and research for the accredited training program in reproductive endocrinology at
      the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD).<TAB>
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This protocol is designed to allow inpatient and outpatient evaluation of women with a
      variety of reproductive and endocrine-related disorders for purposes of research and
      physician education in our accredited reproductive endocrine training program. The
      evaluations may include ultrasound examinations and the collection of blood, saliva, and/or
      urine samples. In some cases, laboratory or radiologic studies will be performed to confirm
      the diagnosis or to aid in the management of the patient, as would be done in current
      gynecologic practice. In some cases, the patient will receive medical or surgical treatment
      for their disorder. The purpose of these evaluations or treatments will be to support our
      clinical training and/or research mission. In particular, this protocol is intended to
      provide a mechanism for reproductive endocrine fellows and staff to evaluate women with
      medical conditions of interest for fellow teaching and clinical training.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 1 Year to 80 Years
Criteria:

        -  Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Subjects aged 1-85 with reproductive endocrine related conditions.

          -  Young women, women of reproductive age, and older women are the focus of this
             protocol.

          -  Girls with reproductive disorders under the age of 18 will be studied and their
             assent will be obtained if possible along with the consent of their parent/guardian.

          -  Reproductive disorders of men will be included.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnant women over 23 weeks will be excluded, since there are no on-campus prenatal
             or neonatal facilities. If we see patients in consultation after 23 weeks, as is our
             practice, we will provide a report to the referring PI on that protocol as well as
             the patient's personal obstetrician. We do not provide long term obstetrical care.

          -  Patients specifically requesting in vitro fertilization will not be considered
             candidates and will not be seen under this protocol. These patients may be seen for a
             consultation, but will be referred for these services outside of the NIH.

          -  Pregnant patients requiring fetal surgery will be excluded since there are no
             on-campus neonatal facilities.
      
