TITLE:
Phase I Trial of Continuous Hyperthermic Peritoneal Perfusion (CHPP) With Cisplatin Plus Early Postoperative Intraperitoneal Paclitaxel and 5-FU for Peritoneal Carcinomatosis

CONDITION:
Carcinoma

INTERVENTION:
Cisplatin

SUMMARY:

      Two days prior to planned surgery, paclitaxel is infused IV over 24 hours.

      Patients will undergo cytoreductive surgery, to debulk tumor. Scope of procedure will vary
      with each patient, including a spectrum of possible procedures, such as splenectomy, liver
      resection, pancreatic resection or bowel resection.

      After cytoreductive surgery, continuous hyperthermic peritoneal perfusion (CHPP) surgery
      with cisplatin will begin by placing an influx and efflux catheters via abdominal wall.
      Perfusion rate of cisplatin is 1.5 L/min and the duration is 90 min.

      Postoperative intraperitoneal chemotherapy will begin 24 hours after CHPP surgery.

      Dose escalation will proceed after patients at a given dose level receive 3 courses. In
      order to properly evaluate hematoxicity, a minimum of 3 weeks will be required before dose
      escalation. MTD is either the dose level immediately below the level at which 2 of 6
      patients in a cohort experience nonhematologic dose limiting toxicity (DLT) or when 4 of 6
      patients experience hematologic DLT.

      Two to 4 months after surgery, laparotomy will be conducted to determine response to
      treatment. If tumor size is decreased, patients will undergo a second treatment course
      identical to the same techniques and chemotherapy agents.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Peritoneal carcinomatosis is considered a terminal stage of tumor progression. Cytoreductive
      surgery plus aggressive combination intraperitoneal chemotherapy may significantly alter the
      natural history of this disease. This study will define the maximum tolerated dose of
      paclitaxel and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) given as an early post-operative intraperitoneal (IP)
      dwell therapy after cytoreductive surgery and continuous hyperthermic peritoneal perfusion
      with cisplatin (CHPP).
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        The patients must have an ECOG performance status of 0 or 1 and have no concomitant
        medical problems that would place them at increased risk for a major surgical procedure
        (EG, cardiac or pulmonary disabilities).

        Patients at increased risk for coronary artery disease or cardiac dysfunction (e.g., age
        greater than 65, history of hypertension, first degree relative with atherosclerotic
        coronary artery disease) will undergo cardiac evaluation and performed which will include
        an attempt to remove all disease greater than 0.5 cm in diameter.
      
