TITLE:
Thalidomide to Treat Oral Lesions in HIV-Infected Patients

CONDITION:
Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome

INTERVENTION:
Thalidomide

SUMMARY:

      This study will test the effectiveness of topical thalidomide in healing mouth sores in HIV
      infected patients. Oral (PO) thalidomide heals these sores at a dose of 200 mg per day.
      However, PO thalidomide can cause drowsiness, skin rashes, allergic reactions, increased
      viral load, and even nerve damage that may not be reversible. This study will evaluate the
      efficacy of a topical formulation of thalidomide (placed directly on the surface of the
      sore) for the healing of these sores.

      Persons with HIV infection of acquired immunodeficiency of at least 18 years of age with one
      or more chronic, painful intraoral lesions may be eligible for this study. Subjects must be
      referred by a primary care physician who is managing their care, and must have HIV/AIDS
      status confirmed. Patients' HIV treatment regimen will not be altered and those receiving
      highly active therapy will not be excluded.

      Patients will be excluded if they are concurrently being treated for mucosal lesions
      (including topical or systemic steroids, viscous lidocaine, topical or systemic
      anti-fungals, or mouthwashes), or concurrent thalidomide therapy; receving chemotherapy or
      radiation therapy for neoplasms; using concurrent acute therapy for opportunistic
      infections; concurrent use of sedatives (such as CNS depressants or alcohol use); history of
      allergy to thalidomide; pre-existing peripheral neuropathy of grade II or higher; pregnant
      or lactating females or those not practicing contraception according to FDA guidelines for
      thalidomide.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The proposed clinical trial will evaluate the efficacy of topically-applied thalidomide as a
      treatment for painful oral lesions in HIV-infected patients. Limited data suggest that this
      drug may be effective when given systemically, but is accompanied by a high incidence of
      side effects. Administration of the drug topically onto the lesion should result in high
      local concentrations within the lesion thereby suppressing tumor necrosis factor which is
      thought to be related to the size and severity of the lesion. Subjects will be randomly
      allocated to one of three possible groups: systemic administration of thalidomide, topical
      administration of thalidomide, and placebo. The dose of thalidomide will be determined in a
      dose escalation pilot study prior to the main study. Healing, pain, and the incidence of
      side effects will be assessed at baseline and weekly for up to eight weeks. Successful
      demonstration of an enhanced therapeutic effect or reduced toxicity may provide a basis for
      the development of novel routes of administration and drugs for the treatment of painful
      oral lesions associated with HIV infection and other diseases.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION CRITERIA FOR PATIENTS:

        Persons with HIV infection or acquired immunodeficiency of at least 18 years of age with
        one or more chronic, painful intraoral lesions will constitute the study sample for both
        studies.

        Subjects must be referred by a primary care physician who is managing their care, and must
        have HIV/AIDS status confirmed and current CD4 status provided by the primary physician.

        Patients' HIV treatment regimen will not be altered and those receiving highly active
        antiretroviral therapy will not be excluded.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA FOR PATIENTS:

        Patients will be excluded from participation if taking any concurrent treatment for
        mucosal lesions (including topical or systemic steroids, viscous lidocaine, topical or
        systemic anti-fungals, or mouthwashes), prior to concurrent thalidomide therapy,
        chemotherapy or radiation therapy for neoplasms, concurrent acute therapy for
        opportunistic infection, concurrent use of sedatives (such as CNS depressants or alcohol
        use), history of allergy to thalidomide, pre-existing peripheral neuropathy of grade II or
        higher, and females of childbearing potential.

        Pregnant or lactating females will be excluded.

        INCLUSION CRITERIA FOR HEALTHY VOLUNTEERS:

        Patients must be between ages 40 to 60 years.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA FOR HEALTHY VOLUNTEERS:

        Cannot be using prescription or non-prescription medications except birth control.

        Cannot have acute or chronic current infections or illness.

        Cannot have autoimmune conditions, such as diabetes, lupus, or HIV (must be healthy).

        Cannot use within 24 hours: anti-inflammatory drugs or other analgesics.

        Cannot use within 24 hours: anti-histamines or allergy medications.

        Cannot use within 3 weeks: antidepressants or steroids.
      
