TITLE:
Comparing Magnetic Resonance Imaging/Spectroscopy Techniques

CONDITION:
MRI Scans

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) are diagnostic
      tests that allow researchers to look at different chemical properties of tissue. Magnetic
      resonance imaging and spectroscopy studies can be used to gather or evaluate information
      about various aspects of patient s bodies or to monitor changes in the biochemistry and
      physiology of patient s bodies.

      Unlike other diagnostic techniques (CT scan and PET scan) MRI and MRS do not use ionizing
      radiation. Some studies have shown that MRI is more effective at distinguishing normal parts
      of the anatomy from abnormal anatomy, especially in the brain. MRI has become the diagnostic
      test of choice for evaluating patient with multiple sclerosis.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate normal volunteers and patients with a variety of
      diseases with magnetic resonance imaging. Researchers will attempt different magnetic
      resonance imaging methods and techniques as well as different levels of magnetic strength.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      MRI is a constantly evolving imaging modality and MR. Pulse sequences are often modified to
      improve their performance. However, many of these changes have not yet been approved by the
      FDA and therefore, are not considered standard of care. Some of these sequences require the
      use of new types of imaging coils, which are also investigational. The major purpose of this
      protocol is to inform patients undergoing MR scans in the Clinical Center that they may
      undergo scans that are not FDA approved and to get the patient's consent for this. This is
      not a formal research study since specific disease entities and specific pulse sequences are
      not studied in a systematic way. Rather, the purpose is to give NIH patients access to
      gradual improvements in MR technology that would otherwise not be available to them. A
      secondary purpose is to inform patients about the risks of MRI and gadolinium chelates which
      are commonly employed in MRI.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 99 Years
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        All patients undergoing MRI in the Clinical Center.

        Patients must be able to provide informed consents.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        No contraindications to MRI.

        Inability to understand consent form or consent process and the absence of a suitable
        guardian.

        Refusal to Participate.
      
