TITLE:
New Drugs in the Treatment of Mood Disorders

CONDITION:
Anxiety Disorder

INTERVENTION:
Lamotrigine (Lamictal (Registered Trademark)

SUMMARY:

      This clinical study compares the effectiveness of two anticonvulsants Lamotrigine (Lamictal)
      Monotherapy and Gabapentin (Neurontin) in patients with treatment resistant affective
      disorders. We initially have found that the response rate to lamotrigine (51%) exceeded that
      of gabapentin (28%) or placebo (21%). In this study the placebo phase has been dropped so
      that we examine possible clinical and biological factors predictors of response. The drugs
      will be given in a randomized order for six weeks each and you will not know when you are on
      a given one. There will be a 2-4 week "washout" period between treatments. If you respond
      well to one of these treatments, a longer open continuation period will be offered at the
      end of this study. This would involve one or both drugs in combination. A variety of rating
      scales and brain imaging procedures will also be offered before and during each drug
      evaluation. Both lamotrigine and gabapentin are generally well tolerated. A serious
      potentially life threatening rash occurs in about 1/500 patients treated with lamotrigine,
      however. Common side effects are rash, dizziness, unsteadiness, double vision, blurred
      vision, nausea, vomiting, insomnia, sedation, and headache. These side effects are usually
      mild, and resolve with continued time on the drug or a decrease in dosage.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The anticonvulsants carbamazepine (CBZ) and valproate (VPA) have efficacy in the treatment
      of mood disorders, suggesting that other anticonvulsants with related mechanisms of action
      may have similar utility. Additional treatments are sorely needed because many patients with
      recurrent affective disorder have symptoms refractory to treatment with conventional agents,
      including lithium, carbamazepine, and valproate. This refractory group is the major focus of
      our investigative efforts on 3-west in the Section of Psychobiology, NIMH. Moreover,
      establishing differential clinical and biological predictors of response has become
      increasingly important both to rapid allocation of appropriate treatment and as they may
      supply insight into the pathophysiology of the mood disorders and their subtypes.

      Lamotrigine, a phenyltriazine use-dependent sodium channel blocker that inhibits release of
      excitatory amino acids, is a new anticonvulsant with fewer side effects than older agents
      and was recently approved by the FDA as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial
      seizures. Heretofore, only preliminary open clinical evidence suggested that lamotrigine may
      have mood stabilizing properties.

      Gabapentin is a neutral amino acid and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) analog which increases
      brain GABA levels and has fewer side effects than older agents and does not require
      hematological or hepatic monitoring. Preliminary evidence only from open "add-on" series had
      suggested that gabapentin therapy might have antidepressant and antianxiety effects, if not
      mood stabilizing properties.

      We wish to evaluate the efficacy of lamotrigine and gabapentin in the refractory mood
      disorders. We also wish to examine the neurobiology and phenomenology of lamotrigine and
      gabapentin responders and nonresponders to ascertain potential predictors and concomitants
      of response to these medications. This study may lead to improvement in the treatment and
      understanding of mood disorders by providing controlled data on efficacy of these potential
      new treatments, potential predictors of response, and further insights into the
      pathophysiology of mood disorders.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Patients between the ages of 18 and 75 who satisfy DSM-III-R criteria for mood disorders,
        are refractory to at least two conventional treatments, and are inpatients or outpatients
        at the NIMH are invited to participate provided that the following criteria are fulfilled:

        Subjects having serious medical illness (or meeting current psychoactive substance
        dependence will be excluded from entry.)
      
