TITLE:
Biological Markers in Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)

CONDITION:
Attention Deficit and Disruptive Behavior Disorder

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate individuals with Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity
      Disorder (ADHD) to learn more about the genetics of the disease.

      This study is part of other ongoing studies of individuals with ADHD. The study participants
      have already undergone neurobiological measurements, particularly magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI) of the brain, through other research studies. As a follow-up to these studies,
      participants will next undergo psychiatric interviews, neuropsychological tests, and another
      MRI. In addition to the clinical evaluation of the participants, further research will be
      conducted on the genetics of ADHD. These genetic studies will evaluate people with ADHD as
      well as their family members and a control group of healthy people.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This protocol allows the continuing prospective longitudinal study of ADHD probands for whom
      we have neurobiological measures, particularly quantitative brain MRI. The follow-up
      consists of structured psychiatric interviews, and neuropsychological tests. Repeat MRI
      scans are obtained through protocol 89-M-0006.

      The second purpose of this protocol is a study of the genetics of
      Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). Subjects who have ADHD, their family
      members, and controls are studied under this protocol.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 6 Years to 17 Years
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION REQUIREMENTS-PROBANDS:

        Current age of index probands: 15.21 plus or minus 3.42; previous participation in the
        NIMH Child Psychiatry Branch ADHD study.

        Age adjusted dimensional ratings (Conners Rating Scales-Revised, and Strengths and
        Weaknesses of ADHD and Normal Behavior (SWAN)) of hyperactivity/impulsivity greater than
        or equal to 95th percentile for index and second sibling. Primary ratings for the index
        proband will be provided by main teacher.

        Up to 150 ADHD probands for reassessment.

        Consent and assent obtained in writing.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA - PROBANDS:

        Presence of other known genetic conditions that are likely to be etiologic.

        Onset of medical conditions that could produce symptoms of ADHD through non-genetic
        mechanisms (e.g., thyroid disorders, seizure disorders, inborn errors of metabolism,
        extremely low birth weight (less than 1000 gm), meningitis, intracranial pathology).

        Presence of other psychiatric disorders that can produce symptoms similar to ADHD (e.g.,
        major depression, bipolar disorder, severe anxiety disorders, pervasive developmental
        disorders, psychotic disorders, post-traumatic stress disorder).

        Presence of neuropsychiatric conditions that may confound evaluation of ADHD (e.g.,
        Tourette's syndrome, obsessive-compulsive disorder, or PANDAS (pediatric autoimmune
        neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcus), intelligence quotient less than
        80, reading achievement standard scores less than 75 or reading-intelligence discrepancy
        greater than 2 SD).

        INCLUSION REQUIRMENTS-RELATIVES:

        Subjects must be relatives of probands.

        Consent and assent obtained in writing.

        INCLUSION REQUIREMENTS -NORMAL VOLUNTEERS:

        Up to 150 newly accrued normal volunteers unrelated to probands.

        Same age range as probands.

        Parent and teacher ratings within one SD of population means on ADHD/hyperactivity
        factors.

        Consent and assent obtained in writing.

        EXCLUSIONS - NORMAL VOLUNTEERS:

        Presence of ADHD.

        Presence of any other psychiatric disorders on structured psychiatric interview (DICA-IV).

        Presence of known genetic conditions.

        Onset, presence or history of medical conditions that could produce symptoms of ADHD
        through non-genetic mechanisms (e.g., thyroid disorders, seizure disorders, inborn errors
        of metabolism, extremely low birth weight (less than 1000 gm), meningitis, intracranial
        pathology).
      
