TITLE:
Brain Study of Patients With Frontal Lobe Dementia and Parkinsonian Disorders

CONDITION:
Alzheimer's Disease

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      The Cognitive Neuroscience Section of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
      Stroke proposes to continue its cross-sectional and longitudinal studies of cerebral
      metabolism in frontal lobe dementias and atypical basal ganglia disorders. These studies
      include repeated assessments of neuropsychological and brain anatomical and metabolic
      function in subjects with these important and possibly related brain disorders.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Objective

      To continue the cross-sectional and longitudinal studies performed by the Cognitive
      Neuroscience Section of NINDS on the neuroanatomy, cerebral metabolism, neuropsychology, and
      genetics of frontotemporal dementia, corticobasal syndrome, and related brain disorders.

      Study population

      Frontal lobe dementias and atypical basal ganglia disorders including frontotemporal
      dementia, corticobasal syndrome, and related brain disorders.

      Design

      A cross-sectional assessment of neuropsychological, brain anatomical and metabolic function,
      and genetic measures in subjects with these disorders.

      Outcome measures

      MRI, FDG-PET, neuropsychological and clinical tests, genetics, and neuropathology.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        -  Subjects will be recruited from the NIH referral center, neurological and psychiatric
             clinics, from self or family referral in response to advertisements or from private
             physicians. Healthy volunteers will include subjects who are considered at-risk for
             the development of FTD or CBS and subjects who serve as normal controls matched for
             key characteristics with the patients.

        INCLUSION CRITERIA FOR PATIENTS:

          -  Diagnosis of possible / probable FTD or CBS

          -  Caregiver willing and able to accept the responsibilities involved in the study

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

          -  Pregnant women. Women of childbearing potential will be screened by history for the
             possibility of pregnancy and undergo a urine pregnancy test. These women will be
             excluded from the imaging portions of the protocol.

          -  Behavioral symptoms that would preclude the gathering of data for the study

          -  Other medical or social condition that would preclude participation in the opinion of
             the investigators
      
