TITLE:
Specimen Collection for Individuals With Lung Disease Associated With Rheumatoid Arthritis

CONDITION:
Pulmonary Fibrosis

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a condition in which the lungs of a patient become scarred and
      fibrous. It has been known to occur in as many as 40% of patients diagnosed with rheumatoid
      arthritis (RA). The cause of the pulmonary fibrosis in patients with RA is unknown.

      Researchers hope to improve their understanding of the disease process involved in PF and RA
      by analyzing specimens collected by bronchoscopy, lung biopsy, lung transplantation, or
      autopsy from patients with these conditions.

      The purpose of this study is to collect specimens from rheumatoid arthritis patients with
      and without pulmonary fibrosis as well as patients with pulmonary fibrosis without
      associated diseases or cause (idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The etiology of pulmonary fibrosis in individuals with rheumatoid arthritis is unknown.
      Analysis of blood and specimens procured by bronchoscopy, lung biopsy, lung transplantation,
      or post-mortem examination from patients with this disorder will contribute to our
      understanding of the pathogenetic mechanisms of pulmonary fibrosis in rheumatoid arthritis.
      The purpose of this protocol is to obtain blood and specimens by bronchoscopy, lung biopsy,
      lung transplantation, or post-mortem examination from rheumatoid arthritis patients with and
      without pulmonary fibrosis, individuals with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, and healthy
      research volunteers.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Non-smokers (never smoked or not smoked within the previous 2 years) who are 18 years of
        age or older with any of the following:

        RA with PF (biopsy-proven), or

        RA-only, or

        Idiopathic PF-only (biopsy-proven), or

        Healthy research volunteers by history and indicated tests (individuals without history of
        chronic cardiopulmonary disorder, collagen vascular disease, or bleeding disorder) matched
        for age (within 5 years) and gender.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Individuals with any of the following:

        Forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV(1)) less than 1L.

        Inhalational exposure to fibrogenic fibers or dusts (i.e., asbestos, silica, coal,
        beryllium).

        Chronic cardiopulmonary disorders other than pulmonary fibrosis.

        Other collagen vascular disorders (i.e., systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma,
        polymyositis, mixed connective tissue disease).

        Non-rheumatoid arthritis.

        Viral infections associated with PF (i.e., hepatitis B, hepatitis C, human
        immunodeficiency virus).

        Uncorrectable bleeding diathesis.

        Pregnancy or lactation.
      
