TITLE:
Study of Glycogen Storage Disease and Associated Disorders

CONDITION:
Glycogen Storage Disease

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      Glycogen, is the storage form of glucose. It is usually formed from sugar and stored in the
      liver. When tissues, such as muscle, need glucose for fuel the stored glycogen is converted
      into glucose with the help of enzymes produced in the body. Glycogen storage disease (GSD)
      refers to a group of conditions characterized by abnormal storage of glycogen due to the
      absence of particular enzymes needed in the process of storing and using glycogen.

      This study addresses the related metabolic abnormalities of glycogen storage disease (GSD).
      As patients with disorders of glycogen metabolism are followed it becomes apparent that the
      condition is much more complex than initially thought.

      Researchers believe that patients suffering from glycogen storage disorders should be
      followed and monitored for other heritable metabolic disorders.

      This study will attempt to determine the frequency of associated disorders in patients with
      GSD. In addition, the study will look at the current management of these patients to see if
      the prognosis and course of the disease is changed.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This study addresses the related metabolic abnormalities of the glycogeneses. As more older
      individuals with glycogen storage disease are followed and studied, it becomes apparent that
      when individuals with glycogenosis are viewed from a longitudinal perspective, the condition
      is much more complex and diverse in its related conditions than one would have reason to
      believe, even in hindsight. It is relevant to follow these individuals, searching for
      abnormalities not only with glycogen storage disease in mind, but also because other
      heritable metabolic disorders, including cystinosis and cystic fibrosis, reflect the
      accumulation of associated disorders with age which often have no apparent direct
      association with GSD.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Patients age 20 or older, male or female.
      
