TITLE:
A Pharmacokinetic and Pharmacodynamic Study of Vincristine in Children With Leukemia

CONDITION:
Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
Vincristine

SUMMARY:

      The pharmacokinetic behavior of vincristine in pediatric patients has not been well
      characterized. The present study will obtain detailed information on vincristine
      pharmacokinetics in patients being treated for standard risk ALL on CCG protocols 1952/1962.
      A limited sampling strategy will be developed, and the interpatient and intrapatient
      variability of vincristine pharmacokinetics in children will be studied. A correlation
      between vincristine neurotoxicity and vincristine pharmacokinetics will be sought.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The pharmacokinetic behavior of vincristine in pediatric patients has not been well
      characterized. The present study will obtain detailed information on vincristine
      pharmacokinetics in patients being treated for standard risk ALL according to or on CCG
      protocols 1952/1962/1991. A limited sampling strategy will be developed, and the
      interpatient and intrapatient variability of vincristine pharmacokinetics in children will
      be studied. A correlation between vincristine neurotoxicity and vincristine pharmacokinetics
      will be sought.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        All patients 1 year and less than 10 years of age.

        Patient must be diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

        All CCG patients must be enrolled on CCG 1952, 1962 or 1991 protocols, or be treated
        according to a CCG standard risk ALL protocol. NCI patients must be treated according to
        CCG 1952 for the treatment of standard risk ALL. Enrollment onto the current trial (CCG
        B9802) should if possible take place concurrently with enrollment onto 1952/1962/1991 or
        start of treatment according to a CCG standard risk ALL protocol.

        All patients or their legal guardians must sign a document of informed consent indicating
        their awareness of the investigational nature and the risks of this study.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Previous underlying peripheral neuropathy.

        Previous underlying central nervous system dysfunction.

        Children with CNS toxicity attributable to other chemotherapeutic agents will not be
        followed with the Purdue pegboard test.
      
