TITLE:
Treatment of Tac-Expressing Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma (CTCL) and Adult T-Cell Leukemia (ATL) With Yttrium-90 Radiolabeled Anti-Tac

CONDITION:
Leukemia, T-Cell

INTERVENTION:
Yttrium-90 radiolabeled anti-Tac antibody

SUMMARY:

      The study purpose is to evaluate the clinical response to multidose administration of
      anti-Tac monoclonal antibody conjugated with 10 mCi 90Y in patients with Tac-expressing
      adult T-cell leukemia (ATL).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The study purpose is to evaluate the clinical response to multidose administration of
      anti-Tac monoclonal antibody conjugated with 10 mCi 90Y in patients with Tac-expressing
      adult T-cell leukemia (ATL). This study represents an extension of phase I trial (Clinical
      Project #90-C-0043, FDA IND #3469) which permitted the administration of 5 mCi, 10 mCi, and
      15mCi 90Y-anti-Tac to patients with ATL. We propose to administer 90Y-anti-Tac (10 mCi
      doses) to patients with Tac-expressing ATL who are over 18 years of age and who fill the
      patient eligibility criteria.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

        Histologically confirmed adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL) or cutaneous T-cell lymphoma
        (CTCL).

        Reactivity of at least 10% of peripheral blood, lymph node, or dermal malignant cells with
        anti-Tac as determined by immunofluorescent staining or soluble IL-2 receptor level
        greater than 1,500 U required.

        All stages of Tac-expressing T-cell leukemia and lymphoma eligible except Stage I CTCL.

        All forms of ATL eligible, including the "smoldering" type as well as aggressive disease.

        No symptomatic CNS disease other than tropical spastic paraparesis.

        Asymptomatic CNS disease with demonstrable malignant cells in the CSF allowed (such
        patients receive CNS therapy, e.g., intrathecal methotrexate and/or CNS irradiation, as
        appropriate).

        PRIOR/CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic Therapy: Not specified.

        Chemotherapy:

        CTCL must have failed initial chemotherapy.

        ATL may or may not have had prior chemotherapy.

        At least 4 weeks since prior cytotoxic chemotherapy.

        Endocrine Therapy: Not specified.

        Radiotherapy: At least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy.

        Surgery: Not specified.

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age: 18 and over.

        Performance status: Not specified.

        Life expectancy: Greater than 1 month.

        Hematopoietic: WBC at least 3,000, Platelets at least 75,000.

        Hepatic: Not specified.

        Renal: Not specified.

        Other:

        No pregnant women.

        Negative pregnancy test required of fertile women.
      
