TITLE:
Study of Blood Flow in Heart Muscle

CONDITION:
Coronary Disease

INTERVENTION:
Magnetic resonance imaging

SUMMARY:

      Blood flows to areas of the heart providing oxygen and fuel to the pumping muscle.
      Occasionally the arteries providing the fuel can become blocked. This occurs in coronary
      artery disease.

      Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can be used to evaluate the blood flow to different areas
      of the heart muscle. In this study magnetic resonance imaging will be compared to other
      diagnostic tests (radionucleotide perfusion studies) capable of measuring blood flow to
      heart muscle.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      In this pilot study, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of myocardial enhancement during first
      passage of intravenously injected gadolinium contrast will be used to evaluate regional
      myocardial perfusion in patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease and
      hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. The MRI results will be compared with conventional radionuclide
      perfusion studies (ex. dipyridamole thallium). A clinically defined normal group will also
      be studied without radionuclide correlation.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Ages 18 to 80.

        Either sex.

        Capable of giving informed consent.

        Group 1: Outpatients with known or suspected coronary artery disease with clinical
        indication for radionuclide perfusion imaging.

        Group 2: Patients with non-obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with clinical
        indication for radionuclide perfusion imaging.

        Group 3: Normal volunteers.

        Positive stress thallium or stress sestamibi (i.e., exercise, adenosine, dobutamine or
        dypiridamole) at the NIH.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Pregnancy.

        Unstable angina.

        Uncontrolled hypertension (SBP greater than 185, DBP greater than 105).

        Recent myocardial infarction (less than 5 days).

        2nd or 3rd degree heart block by ECG.

        Asthma, emphysema, renal failure, acute medical illness (fever, pneumonia, etc.) or anemia
        (hct less than 30).

        Cardiac pacemaker or implantable defibrillator, aneurysm clip, neural stimulator, any type
        of ear implant, metal in your eye, any implanted device (i.e. insulin pump, drug infusion
        device) or any metallic foreign body, shrapnel, or bullet.
      
