TITLE:
PET Scan in Patients With Neurocardiologic Disorders

CONDITION:
Autonomic Nervous System Diseases

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This study is designed to use PET scans in order to measure activity of the sympathetic
      nervous system. The sympathetic nervous system is the portion of the nervous system that
      maintains a normal supply of blood and fuel to organs during stressful situations.

      PET scan or Positron Emission Tomography is an advanced form of an X-ray. It is used to
      detect radioactive substances in the body. During this study researchers plan to inject
      small amounts of the radioactive drug fluorodopamine into patients. Fluorodopamine is very
      similar to the chemicals found in the sympathetic nervous system. It can attach to
      sympathetic nerve endings and allow researchers to view them with the aid of a PET scan. One
      area of the body with many sympathetic nerve endings is the heart. After giving a dose of
      fluorodopamine, researchers will be able to visualize all of the sympathetic nerve endings
      involved in the activity of the heart. In addition, this diagnostic test will help
      researchers detect abnormalities of the nervous system of patient's hearts.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This project applies positron emission tomographic (PET) scanning after administration of
      6-[18F]fluorodopamine ([18F]-6F-DA) to visualize sympathetic innervation and function in
      patients with neurocardiologic disorders. Patients undergo infusion of [18F]-6F-DA, followed
      by PET scanning of one or more body regions. Patients may also undergo PET scanning after
      administration of [13N]-ammonia, to assess regional perfusion; regional blood sampling
      (including sampling from the coronary sinus or great cardiac vein) during infusion of
      [3H]-l-norepinephrine ([3H]-NE), to assess the kinetics and metabolism of NE; or magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) to delineate the ventricular myocardium. PET scanning after
      [18F]-6F-DA administration, in conjunction with other clinical assessment tools, should
      provide comprehensive information about regional sympathoneural innervation and function in
      neurocardiologic disorders.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        The subjects are adult patients in one of the following diagnostic categories: coronary
        heart disease or chest pain and normal coronary arteries; myocardial dysfunction or
        failure; hypertension; or dysautonomia. Groups of appropriately matched healthy volunteers
        are studied concurrently as controls.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Minors are excluded.

        Subjects in whom anatomic factors complicate vascular access are excluded.

        Subjects who are not expected clinically to tolerate recumbency during the procedures are
        excluded.

        Pregnant or lactating women are excluded.

        Cardiology patients may be tested while off their usual medications. In this situation,
        the patients will be inpatients on the cardiology ward, managed clinically by staff of the
        Cardiology Branch, DIR, NHLBI. Hypertensives will be tested afer having discontinued
        anti-hypertensive medications for up to two weeks.

        Patients who must take medications continually in the following categories are excluded:
        anticoagulants, tricyclic antidepressants, barbiturates, aspirin, acetaminophen.

        Patients unable to discontinue nicotine or alcohol temporarily are excluded.
      
