TITLE:
Dose Response Relationship for Single Doses of Corticotropin Releasing Hormone (CRH) in Normal Volunteers and in Patients With Adrenal Insufficiency

CONDITION:
Adrenal Gland Hyperfunction

INTERVENTION:
Ovine Corticotropin-Releasing Hormone (oCRH)

SUMMARY:

      Corticotropin Releasing Hormone (CRH) is a hypothalamic hormone made up of 41 amino acids.
      Amino acids are proteins that when combined make up different substances, like hormones. The
      order of amino acids in CRH, has been determined, meaning that the hormone can now be
      synthetically reproduced in a laboratory setting.

      When CRH is released from the hypothalamus it stimulates the pituitary gland to secrete
      another hormone, ACTH. ACTH then causes the adrenal glands to make a third hormone,
      cortisol. This process is known as the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. Problems can
      occur in any of the steps of this process and result in a variety of diseases (Cushing's
      Syndrome and adrenal insufficiency).

      Researchers hope that CRH created in a laboratory setting, ovine CRH (oCRH) can be used to
      help diagnose and treat conditions of the HPA axis. This study will test the relationship
      for single doses of oCRH in normal volunteers and patients with disorders of the HPA axis.
      The oCRH will be injected into the patients vein as a single injection or slowly through an
      IV line over 24 hours. The participants will have blood tests taken to measure hormone
      levels before, during, and after receiving the oCRH.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) is a 41 amino acid hypothalamic peptide whose chemical
      structure has recently been determined after more than two decades of intensive research.
      This peptide stimulates secretion of ACTH by the corticotroph cells of the pituitary gland.
      As with the previously discovered hypothalamic hormones, CRH has important diagnostic and
      therapeutic applications. This study seeks to explore these clinical applications by
      determining the dose-response relationship for single doses of ovine CRH (oCRH) in normal
      volunteers and in patients with disorders of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. CRH is
      administered intravenously at doses up to 10 pg/kg, given as a bolus or up to 1 ug/kg/b as a
      continuous infusion lasting up to 24 hours. Plasma levels of ACTH, cortisol and CRH are
      measured before, during and after CRH administration.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        The normal volunteers are obtained through the NIH volunteer program or are NIH employees.
        Normal volunteers are in excellent health and are receiving no chronic medications.

        We now routinely test patients with hypocortisolism or hypercortisolism in our clinic and
        ward.
      
