TITLE:
Studies of Frontal Lobe Brain Functioning in Schizophrenia

CONDITION:
Healthy

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to use brain imaging technology to investigate the role of the
      frontal lobe of the brain in the thinking of individuals with schizophrenia and other
      neuropsychiatric disorders and healthy volunteers.

      Participants in this study will undergo a positron emission tomography (PET) scan of the
      brain while performing neuropsychological tests. Some of the tests involve cognitive
      operations that depend upon the frontal cortex. Interactions between frontal lobe
      activation, cognitive behavior, and neuropharmacology will be assessed by measuring regional
      cerebral blood flow (rCBF) during treatment with drugs that may affect frontal lobe
      physiology.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The purpose of this work is to investigate the role of the frontal lobe, and its connections
      for cognition in health and in neuropsychiatric diseases, particularly schizophrenia.
      Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) will be measured with oxygen-15 water positron emission
      tomography (PET) while subjects perform a variety of neuropsychological tests. Some of these
      tests involve cognitive operations that are posited to depend upon the frontal cortex, such
      as the use of working memory for abstract reasoning and problem solving, formation and
      maintenance of conceptual sets, set shifting, sequencing, and delayed response; others
      control for nonspecific sensory and motor aspects of these measurements or are contrast
      conditions posited to depend on other brain regions. Interactions between regional
      activation, cognitive behavior, and neuropharmacology will be assessed by measuring
      cognitively-related rCBF during treatment with drugs that may affect frontal lobe
      physiology. Hypotheses about genetic determinants of these relationships will also be tested
      by comparing rCBF measures across individuals harboring different genotypes (detemined
      through protocol 95-M-0150).
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 90 Years
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION/EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Participants in this study will reflect the diversity of the community. No one will be
        excluded or discriminated against on the grounds of race, gender, religion or ethnic
        background. Every attempt will be made to include women and minorities in the study
        population. Children will not be studied because of radiation exposure limits on this
        group.

        Normal control subjects will be recruited through the NIH normal volunteer program and
        through advertisement in the community and primarily through the "Genetic Study" under
        protocol 95-M-0150. An additional control group of non-schizophrenic siblings of patients
        with schizophrenia will also be recruited (from the community and protocol 95-M-0150, A
        Neurobiological Investigation of Patients with Schizophrenia Spectrum Disorders and Their
        Siblings). Control subjects will be matched to the patient groups by age, sex, and
        handedness. Control subjects with history of psychiatric or neurologic disorders or
        medical illnesses or surgeries that might have relevance to the investigation of brain
        physiology will be excluded. Normal subjects taking medications with relevance to cerebral
        blood flow and metabolism will be excluded from study.

        Patients with schizophrenia will be recruited from the inpatient population of the NIMH
        Wards at the NIH Clinical Center and the sibling study protocol 95-M-0150. Diagnoses will
        be made by the NIMH clinical staff in accordance with DSM-IV(R). Patients with history of
        neurological illness other than those of interest to the study, or other medical illness
        or surgery that might have impact on the study of brain physiology, will be excluded.
        Inpatients on the NIMH Schizophrenia Ward who have signed protocol 89-MH-160 "Inpatient
        Evaluation of Neuropsychiatric Patients) will be studied when they have been withdrawn
        from all medications for two to four weeks. They will also be studied when they are
        stabilized on medication; however, no treatment decisions, for inpatients or outpatients,
        will be based upon this study. All inpatients will be carefully monitored on the NIMH/NIH
        wards as per protocol 89-MH-160.

        Additional neuropsychiatric patients (such as those with affective disorder, Parkinson's
        Disease, special genetic disorders (e.g. William's Syndrome), and other neuropsychiatric
        disorders) will be recruited from the medical community, from NIH inpatient and outpatient
        services, and through the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill (NAMI). Patients will be
        identified by the presence of typical symptoms and signs elicited by history and
        examination. Diagnoses will conform to accepted diagnostic guidelines where applicable.
        Such patients will be excluded from study for 1) history of psychiatric or neurologic
        disorders other than those under investigation, 2) medical illnesses or surgeries that
        might have relevance to the investigation of brain physiology, 3) current medications that
        are not under investigation and that have relevance to cerebral blood flow and metabolism,
        and 4) IQ less than 70. Outpatients may be admitted overnight if necessary or otherwise
        applicable (e.g. those from out of town).

        No cognitively impaired nonschizophrenic subjects are studied in this protocol. For
        Parkinsons Disease patients, information is obtained from referring physicians, from NIH
        medical records for participants already enrolled in the NIH system, and by phone from the
        potential participant. Further assessment is carried out by a neurologist or psychiatrist
        upon arrival at the NIH. For Williams syndrome patients, IQ testing is done off-site by a
        certified clinical neuropsychologist who refers patients for our study and who has
        followed large numbers of these rare individuals for years.
      
