TITLE:
Effects of Sex Hormones on Circadian Rhythm in Men and Women

CONDITION:
Bipolar Disorder

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      For many years researchers have been trying to better understand the regulation of sleep and
      activity by studying circadian (daily) rhythms of human beings. It appears that the hormones
      estrogen, progesterone, and testosterone play a role in the regulation of circadian rhythm
      in animals. Researchers believe these hormones may also play a similar role in the
      regulation of human circadian rhythms. Little research has been conducted on how these
      hormones affect human circadian rhythms.

      This study is designed to learn more about how specific hormones influence men and women's
      daily rhythms. This study will use women from another research study being conducted at the
      NIMH called, "The central nervous system effects of pharmacologically induced
      hypogonadotropic hypogonadism with and without estrogen and progesterone". Male subjects
      will be recruited from another NIMH study called, "The central nervous system effects of
      pharmacologically induced hypogonadotropic hypogonadism with and without testosterone
      replacement".

      In order to test the possibility that gonadal steroids (estrogen, progesterone, and
      testosterone) change circadian rhythms and the sleep-wake cycle in humans, participants will
      undergo chronobiologic evaluations. The chronobiologic evaluations will look at sleep and
      rest periods, activity as measured by a wrist monitor, and 24 hour inpatient
      electroencephalograph (EEG), rectal temperature, and melatonin monitoring.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      It is hypothesized that gonadal steroids modulate circadian rhythms and the sleep-wake cycle
      in humans, as they do in animals. This hypothesis will be tested by performing
      chronobiologic evaluations on women enrolled in protocol 92-M-0174 ("The central nervous
      system effects of pharmacologically induced hypogonadotropic hypogonadism with and without
      estrogen and progesterone") and on men enrolled in protocol 94-M-0037 (The central nervous
      system effects of pharmacologically induced hypogonadotropic hypogonadism with and without
      testosterone replacement"). Based on the animal literature, we hypothesize that melatonin
      and sleep onset will be phase-advanced in women on estrogen, compared with those on
      progesterone or in a hypogonadal state. We also hypothesize that the amplitude of the
      activity cycle will be decreased in the progesterone, as compared with the estrogen,
      condition. Based on findings in amenorrheic women and in those on oral contraceptives, we
      hypothesize that the amplitude of melatonin secretion will be increased in the hypogonadal
      state, compared with the other two conditions. Finally, based on literature cited below, we
      hypothesize that mean prolactin levels will be higher in the testosterone plus Lupron
      condition and in the estrogen plus Lupron condition than in the other hormonal conditions.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Volunteers must be healthy individuals between the ages of 18 and 45 years old.

        No pregnant women.

        No history of menstrually-related mood or behavioral disturbances.

        No volunteers with current or past Axis I diagnoses, significant abnormalities on physical
        or neurological examination, or significant laboratory abnormalities.

        Must be HIV negative.
      
