TITLE:
Osteosarcoma Study #2: A Randomized Trial of Pre-Surgical Chemotherapy vs. Immediate Surgery and Adjuvant Chemotherapy in the Treatment of Non-Metastatic Osteosarcoma. A Pediatric Oncology Group Phase III Study

CONDITION:
Osteosarcoma

INTERVENTION:
pre-surgical chemotherapy

SUMMARY:

      The study is designed to determine if the administration of multi-drug adjuvant chemotherapy
      for patients with primary non-metastatic osteogenic sarcoma, both prior to and after the
      definitive surgical procedure for their primary tumor is superior as a treatment strategy to
      the current approach of giving drugs only after the definitive surgical procedure has been
      performed. An effort will be made as well to determine if the administration of
      pre-definitive surgery, chemotherapy leads to an increase in the proportion of the patients
      suitable for a limb salvage primary surgical procedure.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The study is designed to determine if the administration of multi-drug adjuvant chemotherapy
      for patients with primary non-metastatic osteogenic sarcoma, both prior to and after the
      definitive surgical procedure for their primary tumor is superior as a treatment strategy to
      the current approach of giving drugs only after the definitive surgical procedure has been
      performed. An effort will be made as well to determine if the administration of
      pre-definitive surgery, chemotherapy leads to an increase in the proportion of the patients
      suitable for a limb salvage primary surgical procedure.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Must be less than or equal to 30 years of age.

        No prior history of cancer.

        No prior therapy-other than biopsy.

        Informed consent according or institutional guidelines (Agreement to randomization to
        either presurgical chemotherapy or immediate surgery-physicians must also agree).

        Less than or equal to 21 days since initial diagnosis and eligible to have surgery within
        3 weeks of randomization.

        Must have a high grade osteosarcoma.

        Must not have low grade osteosarcoma, periosteal and parosteal

        osteosarcoma, or multi-focal sclerosing of osteosarcoma.

        Tumor must be confined to extremity or expendable and resectable bone of axial skeleton
        (i.e., ilium, scapula, clavicle, rib).

        No evidence of metastases by PE, CXR, chest CT, and bone scans. (Chest CT must be normal
        within 2 weeks of randomization). Abnormalities on chest CT must be biopsy-negative or
        thoracotomy negative. Suspicious lesions on bone scan should be biopsied.

        LDH level and surgical intent (i.e., amputation, resection, or limb replacement) must be
        known before patient is registered.
      
