TITLE:
A Phase I Multicenter Clinical Trial to Evaluate the Safety and Immunogenicity of Vaccinia Derived HIV-1 Recombinant Envelope Glycoprotein (gp160) of Human Immunodeficiency Virus: Evaluation of a 200-mcg Dose

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
gp160 Vaccine (Immuno-AG)

SUMMARY:

      To determine the safety of and immune response to vaccinia-derived HIV-1 recombinant
      envelope glycoprotein (gp160) at a dose of 200 mcg in human volunteers; to evaluate duration
      of antibody response and its relationship to the dose and frequency of inoculation.

      Although recent advances have been made in antiviral therapy against AIDS, there is
      currently no cure for AIDS. It is likely that the ultimate control of the disease depends on
      the development of safe and effective vaccines against HIV.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Although recent advances have been made in antiviral therapy against AIDS, there is
      currently no cure for AIDS. It is likely that the ultimate control of the disease depends on
      the development of safe and effective vaccines against HIV.

      Healthy, adult volunteers without identifiable high-risk behavior for HIV-1 infection are
      randomly assigned to receive three injections of either 200 mcg gp160 vaccine or a placebo.
      At each participating site, four volunteers receive vaccine and two volunteers receive
      placebo. Primary immunization and two booster immunizations at day 30 and day 180 are done
      in an outpatient setting. Volunteers are closely monitored for the first 2 weeks
      postimmunization (primary and boosters), and extensively followed for 2 years. Volunteers
      may be offered an additional booster of the same preparation at 12 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must be:

          -  Normal, healthy, HIV-negative adults who fully comprehend the purpose and details of
             the study.

          -  Available for 2 years of follow-up.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  History of positive PPD (tuberculin test) and abnormal chest x-ray.

          -  Positive syphilis serology (e.g., RPR).

          -  Positive for circulating hepatitis B surface antigen.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  They or their sexual partners have identifiable high-risk behavior for HIV infection.

          -  History of immunodeficiency or chronic illness.

          -  Evidence of psychological or psychiatric problems that may lead to noncompliance.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Immunosuppressive medications.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Blood transfusions or cryoprecipitates within the past 6 months.
      
