TITLE:
A Phase I, Multicenter, Clinical Trial to Evaluate the Safety and Immunogenicity of Vaccinia-Derived MN HIV-1 Recombinant Envelope Glycoprotein (rgp160) of Human Immunodeficiency Virus at Two Different Vaccination Schedules

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
gp160 Vaccine (Immuno-AG)

SUMMARY:

      To determine the safety and immunogenicity of 200 mcg MN rgp160 vaccine (Immuno-AG) versus
      placebo, administered on two immunization schedules to healthy volunteers. Per 06/15/94
      amendment, to determine the safety and immunogenicity of 800 versus 200 mcg given as a
      fourth immunization at 9 or 11 months after the third injection (i.e., at month 17).

      A gp160 vaccine developed from the IIIB strain of HIV-1 has been found to be safe and
      immunogenic in healthy adults. Since the MN strain of HIV-1 is representative of a larger
      proportion of HIV-1 isolates in the United States than is the IIIB strain, evaluation of a
      gp160 vaccine derived from the MN strain is important.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      A gp160 vaccine developed from the IIIB strain of HIV-1 has been found to be safe and
      immunogenic in healthy adults. Since the MN strain of HIV-1 is representative of a larger
      proportion of HIV-1 isolates in the United States than is the IIIB strain, evaluation of a
      gp160 vaccine derived from the MN strain is important.

      Volunteers are randomized to receive 200 mcg MN rgp160 or placebo at months 0, 1, and 6 or
      at months 0, 2, and 8. For each immunization schedule, ten volunteers receive vaccine and
      two volunteers receive placebo. Per amendment, volunteers receive a fourth immunization of
      800 or 200 mcg (or placebo) at 9 or 11 months after the third injection (i.e., at month 17)
      and are followed for 6 months afterward.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Subjects must have:

          -  Normal history and physical exam.

          -  Negative test for HIV by ELISA within 6 weeks prior to immunization.

          -  CD4 count >= 400 cells/mm3.

          -  Normal urine dipstick with esterase and nitrate.

          -  No history of immunodeficiency, chronic illness, autoimmune disease, or use of
             immunosuppresssive medications.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Subjects with the following conditions are excluded:

          -  Positive for hepatitis B surface antigen.

          -  Medical or psychiatric condition or occupational responsibilities that preclude
             compliance.

          -  Active syphilis (NOTE: If serology is documented to be a false positive or due to a
             remote (> 6 months) infection, subject is eligible).

          -  Active tuberculosis (NOTE: Subjects with a positive PPD and normal x-ray showing no
             evidence of TB and who do not require INH therapy are eligible).

        Subjects with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of anaphylaxis or other serious adverse reactions to vaccines.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Prior HIV vaccines.

          -  Live attenuated vaccines within the past 60 days. NOTE: Medically indicated subunit
             or killed vaccines (e.g., influenza, pneumococcal) do not exclude but should be
             administered at least 2 weeks prior to HIV immunizations.

          -  Experimental agents within the past 30 days.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Blood products or immunoglobulin within the past 6 months.

        Higher risk behavior for HIV infection as determined by screening questionnaire,
        including:

          -  History of injection drug use within 12 months prior to study entry.

          -  Higher or intermediate risk sexual behavior.
      
