TITLE:
The Safety and Effectiveness of a Type of Interleukin-2 Plus Zidovudine Plus Thymosin in HIV-Positive Patients With and Without Symptoms of Infection

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Thymalfasin

SUMMARY:

      To determine the safety of thymosin alpha 1 given twice weekly in a regimen of daily oral
      zidovudine (AZT) and biweekly polyethylene glycolated interleukin-2 (PEG IL-2). To determine
      the effect of thymosin alpha 1 and PEG IL-2 in combination with AZT on immunologic and
      pharmacokinetic markers.

      AIDS is characterized by diminished T helper cell number and function. Thymosin alpha 1
      appears to both increase IL-2 receptors on lymphocytes in vitro and enhance lymphocyte
      maturation in vivo; thus, the drug may further enhance the CD4 T cell levels in patients
      receiving AZT and PEG IL-2.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      AIDS is characterized by diminished T helper cell number and function. Thymosin alpha 1
      appears to both increase IL-2 receptors on lymphocytes in vitro and enhance lymphocyte
      maturation in vivo; thus, the drug may further enhance the CD4 T cell levels in patients
      receiving AZT and PEG IL-2.

      Patients are stabilized on oral AZT daily for 8 weeks and then begin receiving bolus
      infusions of PEG IL-2 every other week for at least four doses. Thymosin alpha 1 (given SC)
      is then added to this regimen twice weekly for 4 weeks. If no significant toxicity occurs,
      thymosin alpha 1 is increased to and administered along with scheduled doses of PEG IL-2 for
      an additional 8 weeks.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Prophylactic pentamidine for Pneumocystis carinii.

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV seropositivity.

          -  CD4 count > 50 and < 200 cells/mm3.

          -  No active opportunistic infections.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Concurrent neoplasms other than basal cell carcinoma of the skin, in situ carcinoma
             of the cervix, or Kaposi's sarcoma.

          -  Significant cardiac disease or CNS lesions or other neurologic abnormalities.

          -  Score of > 0.5 on ACTG AIDS Dementia Complex staging.

          -  Major organ allograft.

          -  Intolerance to AZT at 500 mg/day.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Antihypertensive medication other than diuretics.

          -  Chemotherapy, hormonal therapy, or other immunotherapy.

          -  Other investigational drugs, agents, or devices.

          -  Beta-blockers.

          -  Non-topical steroids.

        Concurrent Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Radiation therapy.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Known anti-HIV medication (other than AZT) or known immunomodulators (e.g., systemic
             steroids, interferons, interleukins) or other chemotherapy within 30 days prior to
             study entry.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Transfusion within 4 weeks prior to study entry.

          -  Radiation within 30 days prior to study entry.

        Active substance abuse.
      
