TITLE:
Treatment of Mid-Life-Related Mood Disorders

CONDITION:
Depressive Disorder

INTERVENTION:
Dehydroepiandrosterone

SUMMARY:

      Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is a hormone produced by the adrenal gland. As humans grow
      older the levels of DHEA naturally decrease. Low levels of DHEA have been associated with a
      variety of harmful effects, including increased heart disease, decreased immune system
      function, decreased bone density (osteoporosis), high cholesterol, and increased fat to
      muscle ratio.

      Blood levels of DHEA and its sulfate form, DHEA-S, begin dropping when humans are in their
      20's. By the time humans are in their 40's and 50's, levels of DHEA and DHEA-S levels are at
      50% of their peak. Previous studies have shown that levels of these hormones are associated
      with feelings of "well-being" and enjoyment of "leisure" activities.

      In this study researchers are interested in the effects on mood and behavior of DHEA in men
      and women with mid-life related mood disorders. Specifically, researchers would like to find
      out if increasing levels of DHEA will lessen the symptoms associated with these disorders.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is a hormone produced by the adrenal gland in concentrations
      that decrease with age. In humans low DHEA levels have been associated with a variety of
      adverse biological consequences, including increased cardiovascular disease, decreased
      immune function, decreased bone density, negative lipid profile and an increased fat to
      muscle ratio.

      In this study, we investigate the effects on mood and behavior of DHEA in men and women with
      midlife-related mood disorders in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial. We
      specifically ask whether increasing DHEA levels will mitigate any or all of the
      neurasthenia-like symptoms characteristic of these disorders.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Subjects for this study will meet the following criteria:

        A current episode of minor (meeting 3-4 criterion symptoms) or major depression of
        moderate severity or less on the SCID severity scale for depression and not meeting DSM-IV
        criteria symptom #9 (suicide) as determined by the administration of the minor depression
        module of the SADS-L and the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV. Additionally, to
        ensure that subjects meet a minimum threshold for severity of depression, subjects will
        have scores greater than or equal to 10 on either the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) or
        the Center for Epidemiologic Studies - Depression (CES-D) Scale during at least three of
        the four clinic visits during the two month screening phase. Subjects will be excluded if
        they meet any of the following criteria: major depression of greater than moderate
        severity, DSM-IV criteria #9 (suicide), or anyone requiring immediate treatment after
        clinical assessment, functional impairment ratings of five or six for more than seven
        consecutive days on daily ratings;

        Age 40-65;

        No prior hormonal therapy for the treatment of menopause/andropause-related mood or
        physical symptoms within the last six months;

        In good medical health.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        The following conditions will constitute contradictions to treatment with DHEA and will
        preclude a subject's participation in this protocol:

        Positive (threshold) response to SCID major depression section item #9, suicidal ideation;

        Anyone requiring immediate treatment after clinical assessment;

        Severity ratings greater than moderate on the SCID;

        Functional impairment ratings of five or six for more than seven consecutive days on daily
        ratings

        Current treatment with antidepressant medications

        Prostate nodules or cancer

        Moderate symptoms of benign prostatic hypertrophy such as hesitancy, urgency, frequent
        voiding and feeling of incomplete voiding

        History of ischemic cardiac disease

        Renal disease

        Hepatic dysfunction

        Women with a history of carcinoma of the breast, or any women with a family history of the
        following: premenopausal breast cancer or bilateral breast cancer in a first degree
        relative; multiple family members (greater than three relatives) with postmenopausal
        breast cancer

        Women with a history of uterine cancer

        Patients with a known hypersensitivity to DHEA or other androgens

        Pregnant women
      
