TITLE:
Comparison of Liposomal Doxorubicin Used Alone or in Combination With Bleomycin Plus Vincristine in the Treatment of Kaposi's Sarcoma in Patients With AIDS

CONDITION:
Sarcoma, Kaposi

INTERVENTION:
Doxorubicin hydrochloride (liposomal)

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the safety and efficacy of liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride ( DOX-SL ) alone
      or in combination with bleomycin and vincristine in the long-term treatment of AIDS-related
      Kaposi's sarcoma. To determine whether the 3-drug combination enhances progression-free
      survival and quality of life.

      Liposomal formulations of chemotherapeutic agents increase drug accumulation in tumors,
      which permits disease palliation at relatively low doses and thus decreases some of the
      dose-limiting toxicity. Multi-agent therapy is considered to be more effective than
      single-agent therapy; therefore, DOX-SL will be combined with bleomycin and vincristine.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Liposomal formulations of chemotherapeutic agents increase drug accumulation in tumors,
      which permits disease palliation at relatively low doses and thus decreases some of the
      dose-limiting toxicity. Multi-agent therapy is considered to be more effective than
      single-agent therapy; therefore, DOX-SL will be combined with bleomycin and vincristine.

      Patients are randomized to receive intravenous DOX-SL alone or in combination with
      vincristine/bleomycin every 2 weeks. Filgrastim ( granulocyte colony-stimulating factor;
      G-CSF ) may be given as needed for neutropenia.

      AS PER AMENDMENT 11/7/96: Based on interim review data, it is recommended that subjects
      receiving DOX-SL plus vincristine/bleomycin have vincristine/bleomycin discontinued and
      receive DOX-SL alone unless, in the opinion of the treating physician, they are benefitting
      from the DOX-SL plus vincristine/bleomycin regimen.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  G-CSF.

          -  Licensed or Treatment IND-approved antiretrovirals ( AZT, ddI, ddC, d4T ).

          -  PCP prophylaxis (required if CD4 count < 200 cells/mm3).

          -  Chemoprophylaxis or maintenance for bacterial infections, candidiasis, MAC, and
             herpes simplex.

          -  Up to 14 days of metronidazole.

          -  Recombinant erythropoietin.

        Patients must have:

          -  Documented HIV infection.

          -  Advanced stage Kaposi's sarcoma.

          -  No active acute opportunistic infection.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Significant pulmonary insufficiency (unless due to pulmonary KS).

          -  Significant cardiac insufficiency.

          -  Other active malignancies except for basal or squamous cell carcinoma of the skin or
             in situ cervical cancer.

          -  Grade 2 or worse peripheral neuropathy.

          -  Altered mental status that prevents informed consent.

          -  Active Mycobacterium tuberculosis.

          -  Hypersensitivity or allergic reaction to any study drugs or E. coli-derived
             medications such as filgrastim (G-CSF).

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  GM-CSF.

          -  Drugs associated with peripheral neuropathy (other than approved antiretrovirals and
             vincristine).

          -  Multi-drug therapy for active Mycobacterium tuberculosis (although isoniazid and
             pyridoxine is allowed as treatment for a positive PPD, with permission of study
             chair).

        Concurrent Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Radiation therapy to study marker lesions.

        Patients with the following prior condition are excluded:

          -  Neuropsychiatric history.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Any anti-KS therapy within 21 days prior to study entry.

          -  Prior systemic therapy with any anthracycline (including liposomal anthracyclines),
             vincristine, or bleomycin.

          -  Any investigational drug (other than those available through Treatment IND and used
             for FDA-sanctioned purposes) within 14 days prior to study entry.

        PER AMENDMENT 11/29/95:

          -  No more than 2 cycles of any systemic chemotherapy for Kaposi's sarcoma.
      
