TITLE:
Magnetization Transfer Quantitation and Characterization for Clinical Scanners

CONDITION:
Healthy

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This project will measure magnetization transfer (MT) parameters on normal subjects using
      two novel approaches. The first is the investigation of asymmetric MT effects with respect
      to the zero or on-resonance reference point. The technique measures the difference in MT
      effect between two symmetrically positioned off-resonance MT pulses in the positive and
      negative frequency ranges. Prior research with this technique in the kidney show a
      difference in the macromolecular lineshape that correlates to a specific metabolite. The
      second approach, utilizing a subset of the acquisitions from the first approach, will test
      newly developed formulation to calculate the macromolecular fraction, or fraction of proton
      density that accounts for MT. We foresee these measurements may significantly develop our
      understanding of MT and introduce diagnostic and quantitative tools to study human tissues.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This project will measure magnetization transfer (MT) parameters on normal subjects using
      two novel approaches. The first is the investigation of asymmetric MT effects with respect
      to the zero or on-resonance reference point. The technique measures the difference in MT
      effect between two symmetrically positioned off-resonance MT pulses in the positive and
      negative frequency ranges. Prior research with this technique in the kidney show a
      difference in the macromolecular lineshape that correlates to a specific metabolite. The
      second approach, utilizing a subset of the acquisitions from the first approach, will test
      newly developed formulation to calculate the macromolecular fraction, or fraction of proton
      density that accounts for MT. We foresee these measurements may significantly develop our
      understanding of MT and introduce diagnostic and quantitative tools to study human tissue.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Normal control between the ages of 18 - 70 years of age who are capable of giving informed
        consent.

        Subjects must not have a condition which would preclude their use for technical
        development (e.g. paralyzed hemidiaphragm, morbid obesity, claustrophobia, etc.).

        Subjects must not have a condition which would present unnecessary risks (e.g. pregnancy,
        surgery of uncertain type, symptoms of pheochromocystoma or insulinoma, etc.).

        Lactating women and subjects with hemoglobinopathies, asthma, or renal or hepatic disease
        will be excluded from studies involving the administration of contrast agents.

        Must not have a contraindication to MR scanning such as surgery that involves metal clips
        or wires which might be expected to concentrate radiofrequency fields or cause tissue
        damage from twisting in a magnetic field. Examples include: aneurysm clip; implanted
        neural stimulator; implanted cardiac pacemaker or autodefibrillator; cochlear implant;
        ocular foreign body (e.g. metal shavings); insulin pump.
      
