TITLE:
A Pilot Study of 566C80 for the Salvage Treatment of Toxoplasmic Encephalitis in Patients Infected With the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Who Have Failed or Are Intolerant of Pyrimethamine-Sulfadiazine

CONDITION:
Toxoplasmosis, Cerebral

INTERVENTION:
Atovaquone

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the safety and tolerance of atovaquone (566C80) in AIDS patients with central
      nervous system (CNS) toxoplasmosis. To evaluate the efficacy of 566C80 in the acute
      treatment and suppression of CNS toxoplasmosis in AIDS patients who fail or who cannot
      tolerate conventional therapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have the following:

          -  Presumptive diagnosis of AIDS.

          -  Cerebral toxoplasmosis.

          -  Expected survival of at least four weeks without therapy.

          -  Willing and able to give informed consent.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Pyrimethamine-sulfonamide.

          -  Clindamycin-sulfonamide.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  Significant emotional disorder or psychosis.

          -  Evidence of significant malabsorption, ileus or significant emesis at entry which
             would inhibit drug absorption.

          -  Other known central nervous system lesions such as lymphoma, tuberculoma,
             cryptococcoma, active neurosyphilis. Unwilling or unable to take 566C80 with a meal,
             enteral supplements (eg:

          -  Ensure Plus) or pulverized form through a nasogastric tube.

          -  Active drug or alcohol abuse sufficient in the investigator's opinion to prevent
             compliance with the study regimen.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Drugs with potential anti-toxoplasmosis activity including sulfone, sulfonamide,
             trimethoprim, pyrimethamine and clindamycin during the acute therapy phase of the
             trial.

          -  First three weeks of treatment:

          -  Retrovir (zidovudine) or any investigational agent including antiretroviral agents
             (eg:

          -  ddI,ddC).

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Significant emotional disorder or psychosis.

          -  Evidence of significant malabsorption, ileus or significant emesis at entry which
             would inhibit drug absorption.

          -  Other known central nervous system lesions such as lymphoma, tuberculoma,
             cryptococcoma, active neurosyphilis. Unwilling or unable to take 566C80 with a meal,
             enteral supplements (eg:

          -  Ensure Plus) or pulverized form through a nasogastric tube.

          -  Active drug or alcohol abuse sufficient in the investigator's opinion to prevent
             compliance with the study regimen.

        Active drug or alcohol abuse sufficient in the investigator's opinion to prevent
        compliance with the study regimen.
      
