TITLE:
Evaluation of Treatment for Mycobacterium Avium Complex (MAC) Infection in HIV-Infected Patients

CONDITION:
Mycobacterium Avium-intracellulare Infection

INTERVENTION:
Ethambutol hydrochloride

SUMMARY:

      To assess the feasibility of using culture and staining techniques to quantify tissue
      Mycobacterium avium Complex (MAC) burden in bone marrow. To correlate and compare changes in
      MAC bone marrow burden with quantitative MAC blood culture results at baseline and after 4
      and 8 weeks of treatment.

      MAC is easiest to detect in the blood, although doctors generally believe that MAC in blood
      is just "spill-over" from infection of other parts of the body. Traditionally, studies of
      potential treatments for MAC focus only on MAC changes in the blood. This study compares MAC
      changes in blood to those in bone marrow, which is another tissue where MAC is often found.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      MAC is easiest to detect in the blood, although doctors generally believe that MAC in blood
      is just "spill-over" from infection of other parts of the body. Traditionally, studies of
      potential treatments for MAC focus only on MAC changes in the blood. This study compares MAC
      changes in blood to those in bone marrow, which is another tissue where MAC is often found.

      Patients receive both clarithromycin and ethambutol for 48 weeks; those who become
      intolerant to the study drugs may receive suggested substitute drugs (azithromycin and
      rifabutin). Patients receive a bone marrow biopsy at baseline and at either 4 or 8 weeks.
      Patients are evaluated at weeks 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 36, and 48.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Any antiretroviral therapy that is approved or is available through an FDA-sanctioned
             treatment IND or treatment protocol.

          -  Primary or secondary PCP prophylaxis with TMP/SMX, dapsone, or aerosolized
             pentamidine, as well as approved therapies for other AIDS-related opportunistic
             infections not otherwise excluded.

          -  Erythromycin, interferon-alpha, and supportive care for any therapy-related
             toxicities as necessary.

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV infection.

          -  Confirmed MAC bacteremia.

          -  Consent of parent or guardian if less than 18 years of age.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  MAC inhibitors, including aminoglycosides, quinolones, clofazimine, azithromycin
             (except when administered as a substitute drug), and rifamycins, during the first 24
             weeks of the study.

          -  Immunomodulators (including colony-stimulating cytokines such as GM-CSF and G-CSF)
             other than those that are specifically allowed.

          -  Steroids in excess of physiologic replacement doses.

          -  Cytotoxic chemotherapy.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of treatment-limiting intolerance or hypersensitivity to the study drugs or
             other macrolides.

          -  Changes on chest radiograph within 7 days prior to study entry, that are consistent
             with acute Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, pulmonary tuberculosis, or other acute
             respiratory infection.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Clarithromycin, azithromycin, or ethambutol for more than 10 consecutive days within
             the 8 weeks prior to study entry OR between the time an initial AFB positive blood
             sample was collected and study entry.

          -  Cytokines (other than erythropoietin and interferon-alpha) within 8 weeks prior to
             study entry.

          -  Steroids within 8 weeks prior to study entry.

          -  Cytotoxic chemotherapy within 8 weeks prior to study entry.

          -  Acute therapy for an AIDS-related opportunistic infection or malignancy, or other
             acute medical illness or infection within 4 weeks prior to study entry.

          -  Rifabutin monotherapy if initiated for MAC prophylaxis between the time an initial
             AFB positive blood sample was collected and study entry.

          -  Aminoglycosides, quinolones, clofazimine, or rifamycins IF ADMINISTERED IN ANY
             COMBINATION within 7 days prior to study entry OR between the time an initial AFB
             positive blood sample was collected and study entry.
      
