TITLE:
Pharmacokinetics of Nystatin LF I.V. in Patients With Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome-Related Complex (ARC)

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Nystatin

SUMMARY:

      To define the pharmacokinetic characteristics of Nystatin LF IV (intravenous) in human
      subjects with AIDS-related complex (ARC) after administration of a single IV dose at each of
      4 dose levels.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have the following:

          -  Positive HIV antibody test.

          -  Diagnosis of AIDS-related complex (ARC).

          -  CD4+ cell count between 100 and 300 cells/mm3.

          -  Estimated life expectancy of at least 6 months.

          -  Normal neurological status.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  Active opportunistic infection requiring ongoing therapy except patients being
             treated topically for oral thrush.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Active opportunistic infection.

          -  Known hypersensitivity to polyene antibiotics.

          -  Unwillingness to sign an informed consent or to be in compliance of protocol
             requirements.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 72 hours of study entry:

          -  Biologic response modifier agents.

          -  Corticosteroids.

          -  Cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents.

          -  Potential nephrotoxins.

          -  Potential neutropenic agents.

          -  Rifampin or rifampin derivatives.

          -  Systemic anti-infectives.

          -  Phenytoin or barbiturates (inducers of microsomal enzymes).

          -  All systemic medications.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded within 72 hours prior to study entry:

          -  Radiation therapy.

        Active alcohol or drug abuse unless they have been off drugs and/or alcohol for two weeks
        prior to start of study.
      
