TITLE:
Evaluation of Patients With Heart Disease Not Eligible for Research Protocols

CONDITION:
Heart Disease

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      An important mission of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) is to develop and carry out
      research studies designed to improve understanding of disease processes and treatments.

      Clinical research continues to become more focused on specific diseases and the signs and
      symptoms of diseases in specific groups of people and patients.

      This study is designed to permit inpatient evaluation and care of patients with heart
      disease who do not qualify to participate in research studies being conducted by the
      Cardiology Branch of the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI). These patients
      are valuable to the Cardiology Branch of the NHLBI because they help to improve training and
      experience of its researchers.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      An important mission of the NIH is to the conduct of research that elucidates biological
      mechanisms, pathogenesis and treatment of diseases. Clinical research has evolved into an
      increasingly narrow focus on specific diseases and disease presentations in select subgroups
      of patients. It is desirable and consistent with Clinical Center policy, for clinical
      investigators to maintain exposure to a more broad spectrum of disease and disease
      presentations than mandated by the clinical research protocols in order to preserve clinical
      skills of physician and nursing staff, ensure adequate training of clinical research
      fellows, and stimulate ideas for future clinical research. This protocol permits evaluation
      and treatment of patients with cardiovascular diseases who do not fulfill eligibility
      criteria for participation in existing clinical research protocols, but who are of medical
      interest for the purpose of training professional staff.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Patients with cardiovascular disease may participate in this training protocol. The
        following is a representative list of the types of patient presentations and potential
        diagnoses eligible for this protocol:

        Coronary artery disease with effort or rest angina or inducible myocardial ischemia as
        determined by noninvasive testing.

        Valvular heart disease.

        Cardiomyopathies, including restrictive, congestive, and hypertrophic phenotypes.

        Peripheral-artery disease of upper or lower extremities, with intermittent pain with
        activity (e.g. claudication) or limb-threatening ischemia.

        Renovascular disease with uncontrolled hypertension, intermittent pulmonary edema, or
        evidence of ischemic nephropathy.

        Congenital heart disease, with communications between chambers or major vessels

        Heart surgery patients treated at the Clinical Center prior to closure of the Heart
        Surgery Branch in 1990

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Pregnancy, for those patients who require testing or treatment requiring dobutamine,
        gadolinium or contrast media or radiation exposure.

        Inability of patient, parent or legal guardian to provide informed consent.
      
