TITLE:
Hydroxyurea for the Treatment of Patients With Sickle Cell Anemia

CONDITION:
Sickle Cell Anemia

INTERVENTION:
Hydroxyurea

SUMMARY:

      A total of fifty severely affected patients with homozygous sickle cell disease or other
      sickling disorders (e.g. B negative or B positive Thalassemia/Sickle) who are greater than
      18 years of age will be eligible for treatment. Such patients must be able to tolerate an
      extensive period without blood transfusion and have relatively well preserved renal and
      hepatic function (creatinine less than 1.5 mg/dl and normal liver function test with
      exception of a mild elevation in transaminase). Evidence of severe sickle cell anemia will
      include recurrent pain crisis, chronic bone oain, evidence of aseptic necrosis with
      symptoms, and intractable leg ulcer, etc.

      On admission to the study, each patient will receive a complete history and physical
      examination. These data and standard laboratory evaluation, including a test for pregnancy
      if appropriate, will be adequate to ascertain whether any of the criteria for exclusion are
      present. Each patient must accept responsibility for for using an effective means of
      contraception. Patients who are found to be HIV positive will be excluded from the study.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Hydroxyurea is a cell-cycle specific agent that blocks DNA synthesis by inhibiting
      ribonucleotide reductase, the enzyme that converts ribonucleotides to deoxyribonucleotides.
      Hydroxyurea has been shown to induce the production of HbF, initially in non-human primates,
      and now in more than fifty patients with sickle cell anemia. The majority of patients with
      sickle cell disease respond to the drug with a more than two-fold increase in HbF levels; in
      some patients the percent of HbF exceeds 10 or 15 percent. It is estimated that levels of 20
      percent are required to substantially reduce the sickling propensity of red cells and to
      modulate disease severity. We propose now to treat several patients chronically with
      hydroxyurea to monitor the durability of the response, to examine for unanticipated long
      term sided effects and to determine hematological changes occurring longitudinally. Such
      patients will be candidates for protocols determining the ability of other agents to enhance
      HbF synthesis, especially in hydroxyurea non-responders. Finally, a series of in vitro
      studies are planned to attempt to develop predictors of response.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        A total of fifty severely affected patients with homozygous sickle cell disease or other
        sickling disorders (e.g., B negative or B positive Thalassemia/Sickle) who are greater
        than 18 years of age will be eligible for treatment. Such patients must be able to
        tolerate an extensive period without blood transfusion and have relatively well preserved
        renal and hepatic function (creatinine less than 1.5 mg/dl and normal liver function test
        with exception of a mild elevation in transaminase). Evidence of severe sickle cell anemia
        will include recurrent pain crisis, chronic bone pain, evidence of aseptic necrosis with
        symptoms, and intractable leg ulcers, etc.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Patients who are found to be HIV positive will be excluded from the study.
      
