TITLE:
Diagnosis and Treatment of Pheochromocytoma

CONDITION:
Pheochromocytoma

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      Pheochromocytoma is a tumor of the adrenal gland. This tumor is typically benign (not
      cancerous) and can be cured by surgical removal. However, pheochromocytomas produce
      neurohormones called cateholamines (epinephrine and norepinephrine). High levels of
      catecholamines can result in high blood pressure, headaches, sweating, heart palpitations,
      nausea, vomiting, and other symptoms. These tumors are considered dangerous because of their
      unpredictable behavior. Patients with pheochromocytoma may experience blood pressures high
      enough to cause a stroke or heart attack in patients.

      This study is designed to take patients suspected of having pheochromocytoma and confirm the
      diagnosis. This will be done using a variety of laboratory tests including a clonidine
      suppression test and glucagon stimulation test. These tests use drugs that can stimulate or
      reduce the activity of the tumor if it is present in the body.

      Once a diagnosis is confirmed, patients participating in this study will undergo standard
      procedures to find the exact location of the tumor and receive standard therapy for the
      condition.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients suspected of having a pheochromocytoma will be studied via a series of tests in an
      attempt to ascertain biochemically whether or not they really have such a tumor. These
      procedures will include a standard clonidine suppression test and a standard glucagon
      stimulation test. Once the diagnosis has been made on the basis of biochemistry, then
      localization and therapy will be done via standard procedures. Measurement of plasma
      metanephrines on mailed samples is available for physicians who seek further evidence for
      the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Patients of any age and either sex who are suspected of having a pheochromocytoma on the
        basis of one or more of the following: 1. hypertensive episodes in a normotensive subject,
        2. abnormal levels of blood and/or urinary catecholamines or their metabolites, or 3. an
        otherwise unexplained abdominal mass.

        Patients without any evidence of pheochromocytoma are excluded.
      
