TITLE:
Monitoring Patients With Uncontrolled Epilepsy

CONDITION:
Epilepsy

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This study is designed to evaluate patients with uncontrolled seizures. Seizures can be
      associated with and monitored by abnormal electrical activity in the brain.

      In this study researchers will use video-electroencephalography (EEG) to monitor patients
      with uncontrolled or suspected seizures. EEG works by measuring electrical activity in
      different areas of the brain. The video-EEG allows researchers to examine changes in the EEG
      along with the clinical features of seizures as they occur.

      In addition to monitoring electrical activity of the brain, researchers will take frequent
      antiepileptic drug blood levels. These measures will allow researchers to learn more about
      how each drug is absorbed and metabolized in the body.

      The information collected in the study will be used to place patients into other scientific
      studies testing new therapies for epilepsy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      In this study we will use standard clinical studies, including simultaneous Video-EEG
      monitoring, to evaluate patients referred for uncontrolled or suspected seizures. The
      protocol will be used to screen patients for inclusion in other protocols, follow the
      natural history of seizure disorders, and train fellows in the evaluation and treatment of
      epilepsy. Both inpatients and outpatients will be studied.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        History of uncontrolled seizures, at the present time, at least during 6 months of the
        past 3 years, and preferably a continuous pattern of seizures during the few months prior
        to admission.

        Seizure frequency, by history, must be sufficient to make video monitoring effective.
        Priority will be given to patients whose seizures occur once or more per day.

        Patients of any age may be accepted.

        Patients (and parents or guardians, if applicable) must express willingness to cooperate
        with the entire protocol, to be willing to undergo further diagnostic tests if needed, and
        to return for follow up evaluation at intervals as needed.
      
