TITLE:
Phenotype and Etiology of Pallister-Hall Syndrome

CONDITION:
Malformations

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      We aim to delineate the range of severity, natural history, molecular etiology, and
      pathophysiology of Pallister-Hall syndrome (PHS), Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome
      (GCPS), McKusick-Kaufman syndrome (MKS), Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS), Oro-facial digital
      syndromes (OFDs), and other overlapping phenotypes. These disorders comprise a syndrome
      community of overlapping manifestations and we hypothesize that this is a reflection of a
      common mechanistic pathway. This hypothesis be addressed by a combined clinical-molecular
      approach where we bring up to 50-100 patients with each disorder to the NIH clinical center
      for a comprehensive clinical evaluation with follow-up at a frequency appropriate to the
      disorder. Specimens will be collected and evaluated in the laboratory by linkage analysis,
      physical mapping, candidate gene characterization, mutation screening, and cell biologic
      studies of normal mutant proteins.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      We aim to use the power of modern molecular genetics and clinical research to delineate the

      range of severity, natural history, molecular etiology, and pathophysiology of a number of

      congenital anomaly syndromes. The goal of the research is to develop a knowledge base that
      allows proper clinical and molecular diagnosis of patients with rare congenital anomaly

      disorders. Our paradigm is the previous work we have done with Pallister-Hall syndrome (PHS)
      and Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome (GCPS), where we have successfully used a combined
      clinical-molecular approach. Using this strategy, we have brought 50-100 patients or
      families with these disorders to the NIH clinical center (NIH CC) for a comprehensive
      clinical evaluation with follow-up at a frequency appropriate to the disorder. We have also
      clinically and/or molecularly evaluated many additional patients with atypical or
      non-classic presentations of PHS and GCPS and have conducted exploratory studies of other
      phenotypes to determine how they might fit into the more general models generated to explain
      PHS and GCPS. We are currently generalizing this approach to a number of disorders including
      talipes equinovarus, atrial septal defect, Robin sequence, and persistent left superior vena
      cava (TARP) syndrome. Specimens from patients participating in both the laboratory and
      clinical arms of the protocol will be collected and evaluated in the laboratory by linkage
      analysis, physical mapping, candidate gene characterization, mutation screening and targeted
      exome sequencing, and cell biologic studies of normal and mutant proteins.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Subjects with clinical manifestations of a congenital anomaly or craniofacial syndrome, or
        a single congenital anomaly that is also seen as part of a congenital anomaly syndrome
        will be considered eligible for participation in this protocol.

        Blood will also be requested on unaffected relatives that could be informative for linkage
        studies or for determining co-segregation of mutations within families. Subjects of either
        gender and all ethnic and racial groups will be accepted.

        Prenatal specimens (amniocentesis or CVS) will be accepted if they are previously acquired
        for clinically indicated reasons. Cord blood or placenta specimens may be accepted if they
        (or a part of them) are not needed for clinical purposes.

        Specimens from patients collected at outside institutions may be accepted into the study
        if they were collected under an IRB-approved protocol at an MPA or FWA institution.

        Coded specimens (specimens linked to identifiers but without personal identifiers attached
        to the sample) may be acquired from other NIH investigators, analyzed, and returned as
        research results to that investigator.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Patients with typical GCPS or PHS who have demonstrated GLI3 mutations may be excluded
        from this study. Patients with phenotypes and disorders with a high risk/benefit ratio
        such as late-onset, neurodegenerative, psychiatric, and cancer-predisposition disorders
        will be excluded from participation. Similarly, patients who are medically fragile or
        unable to tolerate travel to the NIH CC will not routinely be eligible for participation.
        Probands who are adults and decisionally-impaired are ineligible if they do not have a
        legal guardian who has authority to sign a consent form on their behalf.
      
