TITLE:
The Impact of Familiarity and Emotional Attachment on the Visual Processing of Faces

CONDITION:
Bereavement

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This study uses functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to look at brain activity while
      patients view pictures of people's faces that they are familiar with or have emotional
      attachment to.

      The functional MRI (fMRI) procedure allows researchers to "see the brain at work." It uses
      the same powerful magnetic fields and weak electromagnetic radiation (radiowaves) as
      standard structural MRI. However, functional MRI can also show areas of increased blood
      flow, which relates to increased activity by brain cells.

      This research study builds on previous studies that identified specific areas of the brain
      that are activated by visual stimuli showing faces. However, previous research used
      anonymous faces as stimuli. This study will use faces of individuals known to the patient.

      There are three experiments that will be conducted in the study;

        1. Experiment 1 will attempt to determine the effects of familiarity of the photographed
           face on brain activity patterns. Patients will view familiar faces, the faces of close
           friends and relatives, and the faces of famous people.

        2. Experiment 2 will look at how maternal attachment affects the response to visual
           stimuli. Mothers will view pictures of their first born child, as well as those of
           familiar children to whom they are not related, unfamiliar children, and unfamiliar
           adults.

        3. Experiment 3 will explore the effects of interpersonal attachment and loss on response
           to visual stimuli. In this experiment, bereaved spouses will view pictures of their
           deceased spouse, those of living family members, and those of unfamiliar people.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This functional magnetic resonance imaging protocol uses a face recognition activation task
      to ascertain how brain activation patterns differ depending on the subject's familiarity
      with, and emotional attachment to, the person depicted in the visual stimulus. In a series
      of studies, subjects will view unfamiliar and familiar (including personally familiar and
      famous) faces; mothers will view pictures of their own child and those of familiar and
      unfamiliar children; and bereaved and non-bereaved spouses will view pictures of their
      spouse, other family members, and unfamiliar people. The use of emotionally significant
      faces as activation stimuli may help to elucidate the neural circuitry underlying
      interpersonal attachment and psychological responses to loss.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Subjects will be recruited through advertisements within Bethesda and surrounding
        communities.

        All subjects must be right-handed.

        For experiments #1 and 2, subjects will be 20-40 years old.

        For study #3, subjects will be 45-75 years old.

        For experiment #2, all subjects will be mothers with a non-adopted child aged 6-12 years
        old.

        For experiment #3, subjects in the bereaved group will have become spousally bereaved
        within the past 6 months.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Subjects will be excluded if they have a history of significant medical disorders
        (including learning disabilities, seizures, history of head trauma, hypertension, or
        cerebrovascular disease) or psychiatric disorders, including substance abuse. (An
        exception to this is that bereaved subjects in experiment #3 will not be excluded if they
        meet DSM-IV criteria for major depressive disorder (non-psychotic), adjustment disorder
        with depressed mood, or bereavement, as long as their current Hamilton-D score is less
        than 13).

        Subjects will also be excluded if they take any prescribed medications (including birth
        control pills), if they are pregnant, or if their vision is inadequate to see the visual
        stimulus.

        In addition, subjects in experiment #2 will receive a DICA-P (Diagnostic Interview for
        Children and Adolescents, Parent Version), and will be excluded if their child meets
        diagnostic criteria for a psychiatric illness.
      
