TITLE:
Three Drug Combination Therapy Versus Conventional Treatment of Children With Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia

CONDITION:
Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia

INTERVENTION:
Flutamide and Testolactone

SUMMARY:

      This study was developed to determine if a combination of four drugs (flutamide,
      testolactone, reduced hydrocortisone dose, and fludrocortisone) can normalize growth in
      children with congenital adrenal hyperplasia.

      The study will take 60 children, boys and girls and divide them into 2 groups based on the
      medications given. Group one will receive the new four- drug combination. Group two will
      receive the standard treatment for congenital adrenal hyperplasia (hydrocortisone and
      fludrocortisone).

      The boys in group one will take the medication until the age of 14 at which time they will
      stop taking the four drug combination and begin receiving the standard treatment for
      congenital adrenal hyperplasia. Girls in group one will take the four drug combination until
      the age of 13, at which time they will stop and begin receiving the standard treatment for
      congenital adrenal hyperplasia plus flutamide. Flutamide will be given to the girls until
      six months after their first menstrual period.

      All of the children will be followed until they reach their final adult height. The
      effectiveness of the treatment will be determined by measuring the patient's adult height,
      body mass index, and bone density. <TAB>
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      To test the hypothesis that the regimen of flutamide (an antiandrogen), testolactone or
      letrozole (an inhibitor of androgen-to-estrogen conversion), and reduced hydrocortisone dose
      can normalize the growth and adult stature of children with congenital adrenal hyperplasia,
      and can avoid the complications of supraphysiologic glucocorticoid dosage, 60 children with
      this disorder will be randomized to receive either the above regimen or conventional
      treatment until they have reached age 13 years in a girl or age 14 in a boy. After these
      ages boys will receive the conventional treatment and girls will receive conventional
      treatment plus flutamide. In girls, flutamide will be continued until 6 months after
      menarche. All children will be followed until they have attained final adult height. The
      principal outcome measures will be adult height, body mass index, and bone density.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 2 Years to 20 Years
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Subjects will be boys with bone ages 2 to 13 years and girls with bone ages 2 to 11 years
        with classic 21-hydroxylase.

        Subjects must either not yet have undergone pubertal activation of the
        hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, or, if pubertal activation has occurred, must be
        receiving an LHRH agonist to suppress secondary central precocious puberty.

        Children with a bone age of 1 to 2 years may enroll in the protocol for optimization of
        conventional therapy, but will not be randomized to a study arm until the bone age reaches
        2.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Children who have concurrent illnesses requiring glucocorticoid treatment (such as severe
        asthma), or requiring drugs that markedly alter hydrocortisone metabolism (such as
        anticonvulsants), and children who cannot be brought into reasonable control with
        conventional treatment (an unusual occurrence).
      
