TITLE:
Biological Specifications for Denture Designs

CONDITION:
Tooth Loss

INTERVENTION:
Implant-supported denture

SUMMARY:

      The primary term goal of these research efforts has been to enhance the functional status,
      comfort and quality of life of edentulous patients by evaluating clinical procedures,
      denture designs and adjunctive therapies based upon a clear understanding of: (1) oral
      functional impairments caused by the loss of teeth and subsequent tissue changes; (2)
      neurophysiological mechanisms associated with oral functions; (3) metabolism of oral
      tissues; and (4) interactions between biological and psychological processes and denture
      characteristics. The primary purpose of the proposed clinical outcome study is to compare
      the relative efficacies of three different combinations of implant-supported maxillary and
      mandibular prostheses with traditional complete dentures for edentulous patients. Completion
      of this study will determine the relative cost-effectiveness of the implant-supported
      denture treatments for use in the general population of edentulous patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 35 Years to 80 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion criteria:

          -  Completely edentulous veterans with clinically acceptable conventional dentures.

          -  Both male and female applicants will be accepted and the prospective participants
             will be from 35 to 80 years of age.

          -  Patients who have been completely edentulous for at least two years and have
             clinically acceptable conventional dentures, which have been worn for at least 6
             months.

        Exclusion criteria:

          -  Verified history of medical conditions such as connective tissue disorders, blood
             dyscrasias, uncontrolled endocrine disorders, active tuberculosis, AIDS, leukemias,
             Hodgkins, liver disfunction, osteoporosis, chronic nephritis, any chronic condition
             with life expectancy of less than five years as well as patients on long-term
             steroids, anticoagulants, and radiation therapy.

          -  Extremely poor oral hygiene. Oral hygiene condition will be assessed from the amount
             of food debris, plaque and calculus in their present dentures.

          -  Insufficient mandibular or maxillary bone height to accommodate 10 mm long implants
             in potential implant sites.

          -  Presence of temporomandibular joint dysfunction and evidence of severe bruxism.

          -  Physician determines a contraindication for oral surgery.

          -  Candidate expresses reservations about participating for at least three years.
      
