TITLE:
Brief Hospitalization for Schizophrenia: Strategies to Improve Treatment Outcome

CONDITION:
Schizophrenia

INTERVENTION:
Community Re-Entry Program: What is Schizophrenia

SUMMARY:

      The goal of this research program is to implement a series of psychoeducational training
      classes designed to teach individuals with schizophrenia the importance of medication
      treatment, how to identify and manage medication side effects, and how to make appointments
      and emergency plans. The skills taught to the research subjects will lead to demonstrable
      increases (compared to the control group) in adherence to both the prescribed medication
      regimen and scheduled outpatient appointments and thereby cause a decrease (again compared
      to the control group) in rehospitalization rates and bed-days during subsequent twelve
      months following the intervention. A secondary objective of this work is that if the CREP
      program is successful and/or illness education is effective, the data will be able to
      disseminated throughout the VISN 22 via the recently awarded Mental Illness Research
      Education and Clinical Center (MIRECC) program.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Age 18-65 years of age.

          2. DSM IV diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder.

          3. Competent to give informed consent.

          4. Previously participated in "Brief Hospitalization for Schizophrenia: Strategies to
             Improve Treatment Outcome" Principal Investigator. Donna Wirshing, M.D.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Physical or cognitive impairment of such severity as to adversely affect the validity
             of clinical ratings or impair capacity to give informed consent.

          2. History of substantial substance dependence 6 months prior to the study.

          3. Patients at high risk of suicide or other directed violence.
      
