TITLE:
Zalutumumab in Head and Neck Cancer

CONDITION:
Head and Neck Neoplasms

INTERVENTION:
Zalutumumab

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this trial is to determine the safety of zalutumumab as a treatment for head
      and neck cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

        The study population eligible for this study is adult male or female patients of good
        performance status having a histologically confirmed recurrent or metastatic SCCHN, not
        amenable to standard curative or palliative therapies.

          -  Diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity, nasal cavity, paranasal
             sinuses, nasopharynx, oropharynx, hypopharynx or larynx.

          -  Primary or recurrent disease for which no curative or established palliative
             treatments are amenable

          -  WHO performance status of 1 or 2.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Received certain other treatments within 4 weeks prior to administration of study
             drug

          -  Previous severe allergic reactions (e.g. angio-edema, severe asthma, or anaphylaxis).

          -  Skin disease requiring systemic or local corticosteroid therapy.

          -  Known brain metastasis or leptomeningeal disease.

          -  Signs or symptoms of acute illness.

          -  Bacterial, fungal or viral infection.

          -  Certain serious medical conditions, including kidney or liver disease, some
             psychiatric illnesses, myocardial infarction within one year and stomach, lung,
             heart, hormonal, nerve or blood diseases.

          -  Pregnant or breast-feeding women.

          -  Women of childbearing age who are unable or unwilling to use an IUD or hormonal birth
             control during the whole trial.

          -  Simultaneous participation in any other trial involving investigational drugs or
             having participated in a trial within 4 weeks prior to start of trial treatment.
      
