TITLE:
Management of Myelomeningocele Study (MOMS)

CONDITION:
Meningomyelocele

INTERVENTION:
Prenatal Myelomeningocele Repair Surgery

SUMMARY:

      Spina bifida (myelomeningocele) is a complex birth defect in which a portion of the spinal
      cord is not fully developed. The overlying bones and skin are incompletely formed and the
      underdeveloped area of the spinal cord is exposed on the surface of the back. Spina bifida
      defects are closed soon after birth to prevent further damage to the spinal cord and nerves.
      The Management of Myelomeningocele Study (MOMS) is a research study comparing two approaches
      to the treatment of babies with spina bifida: surgery before birth (prenatal surgery) and
      the standard closure, surgery after birth (postnatal surgery).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Since 1997, more than 200 fetuses have had in utero closure of myelomeningocele by open
      maternal-fetal surgery. Preliminary clinical evidence suggests that this procedure reduces
      the incidence of shunt-dependent hydrocephalus and restores the cerebellum and brainstem to
      more normal configuration. However, clinical results of prenatal surgery for
      myelomeningocele are based on comparisons with historical controls and examine only
      efficacy, not safety. MOMS will determine if intrauterine repair of fetal myelomeningocele
      at 19 to 25 weeks of gestation improves outcomes as compared to standard postnatal repair.
      Outcomes assessed include death, the need for ventricular decompressive shunting by one year
      of life and neurologic function at 30 months of age.

      Two hundred women, whose fetuses have spina bifida, will be enrolled in the study and
      randomized to have either prenatal surgery or postnatal surgery. After a central screening
      process which includes a medical record review, all women will have an extensive baseline
      evaluation that will include ultrasound, MRI, physical exam, social work evaluation,
      psychological screening, and education about spina bifida and prenatal surgery.

      For women who are eligible following the central screening process, all screening, surgery
      and follow-up visits will be performed at one of three MOMS Centers. The mother, if
      eligible, and her support person will travel (at the expense of the study) to the MOMS
      Center for screening and randomization.

      Women assigned to have prenatal surgery will be scheduled for surgery within 1 to 3 days
      after they are randomized. They will stay near the MOMS Center until they deliver. Women in
      the postnatal group will travel back to their assigned MOMS Center to deliver. Both groups
      will deliver their babies by C-section around the 37th week of their pregnancies. Babies
      born to women in the postnatal surgery group will have their spina bifida defects closed
      when they are medically stable, usually within 48 hours of birth.

      Children and their parents will return to their assigned MOMS Center at 1 year and 2  years
      of age for follow-up evaluation. Motor function, developmental progress, and bladder,
      kidney, and brain development will be assessed. The children will be asked to return for an
      additional follow-up visit (MOMS2) between the ages of 5 to 8. This follow-up is to
      determine whether children who received the surgery before birth have better health and
      mental outcomes and live more independently and function more safely and appropriately in
      daily life than those who received the surgery after birth.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

          -  Pregnant women carrying a fetus diagnosed with myelomeningocele

          -  Myelomeningocele lesion that starts no higher than T1 and no lower than S1 with
             hindbrain herniation present

          -  Gestational age at randomization of 19 weeks 0 days to 25 weeks 6 days

          -  Normal karyotype

          -  Singleton pregnancy

          -  United States resident

          -  Able to travel to study site for study evaluation, procedures, and visits (if
             randomized to prenatal surgery, must stay near center until delivery)

          -  Support person to travel and stay with participant

        Exclusion Criteria

          -  Maternal insulin-dependent pregestational diabetes

          -  Short or incompetent cervix or cervical cerclage

          -  Placenta previa

          -  Body mass index of 35 or more

          -  Previous spontaneous delivery prior to 37 weeks

          -  Maternal HIV, Hepatitis-B or Hepatitis-C status positive

          -  Uterine anomaly

          -  Maternal medical condition which is a contraindication to surgery or general
             anesthesia

          -  Other fetal anomaly
      
