TITLE:
Fenretinide in Preventing Ovarian Cancer in Participants Who Are at High Risk for Developing Ovarian Cancer and Planning to Undergo Surgery to Remove the Ovaries

CONDITION:
brca1 Mutation Carrier

INTERVENTION:
fenretinide

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Chemoprevention is the use of certain drugs to keep cancer from forming, growing,
      or coming back. The use of fenretinide may prevent ovarian cancer.

      PURPOSE: This randomized clinical trial is studying how well fenretinide works in preventing
      ovarian cancer in participants who are at high risk of developing ovarian cancer and
      planning to undergo surgery to remove the ovaries.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the induction of apoptosis (as determined by TUNEL) in the ovarian epithelial
           and stromal cells of participants at high risk for ovarian cancer treated with
           fenretinide vs placebo.

      Secondary

        -  Compare modulation of several intermediate markers (TGF, BAX, Ki-67, ER, PR, RAR,
           TGFRI, TGFRII, p21, p53, FAS, and FASL) in participants treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare early microvascular changes, using contrast-enhanced ultrasound, in
           participants treated with these drugs.

        -  Determine whether the use of contrast agents could indicate changes in ovarian size and
           architecture that may be assessed as potential surrogates for preventive effect in
           these participants.

        -  Determine the feasibility of future chemoprevention trials for ovarian cancer.

        -  Determine the toxicity of fenretinide in these participants.

        -  Compare the microvascularity index and ovarian volume of participants treated with
           these drugs.

        -  Correlate areas of increased microvascularity and other abnormalities with pathology
           findings obtained at oophorectomy in participants treated with these drugs.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study.
      Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Participants receive oral fenretinide once daily.

        -  Arm II: Participants receive oral placebo once daily. In both arms, treatment continues
           for 6-8 weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Within 5 days after completion of fenretinide or placebo, participants undergo bilateral
      salpingo-oophorectomy.

      Participants are followed at 6 weeks.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 participants (20 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 4 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 30 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  At high risk for developing ovarian cancer, meeting 1 of the following criteria:

               -  Family history of ovarian cancer, defined as  1 first-degree relative diagnosed
                  with ovarian cancer before 50 years of age

               -  Family history of ovarian cancer, defined as  1 first-degree relative diagnosed
                  with ovarian cancer at any age AND  1 first- or second-degree relative
                  diagnosed with breast or ovarian cancer at any age

               -  Positive BRCA1/BRCA2 test

          -  Planning to undergo prophylactic bilateral oophorectomy

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  30 and over

        Performance status

          -  Zubrod 0-1

        Life expectancy

          -  At least 12 months

        Hematopoietic

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin  1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  SGOT  1.5 times ULN

          -  Alkaline phosphatase  1.5 times ULN

          -  No history of liver disease*

          -  No cholestatic jaundice

          -  No hepatic adenomas NOTE: *For patients undergoing contrast enhanced ultrasound

        Renal

          -  BUN normal

          -  Creatinine normal

        Cardiovascular

          -  No history of a congenital heart defect creating a bi-directional or right-to-left
             shunt*

          -  No history of congestive heart failure*

          -  No thrombophlebitis

          -  No thromboembolic disease

          -  No cerebral vascular disease

          -  No coronary artery disease NOTE: *For patients undergoing contrast enhanced
             ultrasound

        Pulmonary

          -  No history of pulmonary hypertension*

          -  No history of pulmonary emboli*

          -  No history of severe emphysema* NOTE: *For patients undergoing contrast enhanced
             ultrasound

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective barrier contraception

          -  Thyroid stimulating hormone normal

          -  T4 normal

          -  Triglycerides  1.5 times ULN

          -  No malignancy within the past 5 years except breast cancer or basal cell or squamous
             cell skin cancer

               -  No evidence of recurrent disease

          -  No known or suspected hypersensitivity to blood, blood products, or albumin

          -  No undiagnosed genital bleeding

          -  No history of pancreatitis

          -  No uncontrolled diabetes

          -  No other severe underlying chronic disease

          -  No concurrent alcohol use (> 3 drinks/day or equivalent)

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  At least 3 months since prior chemotherapy for breast cancer

        Endocrine therapy

          -  No concurrent selective estrogen-receptor modulators, including raloxifene

          -  No concurrent aromatase inhibitors

        Radiotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Surgery

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Other

          -  More than 3 months since prior therapeutic oral or topical vitamin A derivatives
             (e.g., isotretinoin)

          -  No other concurrent investigational agents

          -  No concurrent cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors

          -  No concurrent oral vitamin A or ascorbic acid (vitamin C) supplements > recommended
             daily requirement (10,000 IU for vitamin A and 75 mg for vitamin C)
      
