TITLE:
Talotrexin in Treating Patients With Advanced or Recurrent Solid Tumors

CONDITION:
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific

INTERVENTION:
talotrexin ammonium

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as talotrexin, work in different ways to stop
      the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.

      PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying side effects, best way to give, and best dose of
      talotrexin in treating patients with advanced or recurrent solid tumors.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of talotrexin in patients in patients with
           advanced or recurrent solid tumors.

        -  Determine the safety of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the dose-limiting toxic effects of this drug in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients.

        -  Correlate pharmacokinetic parameters of this drug or patient characteristics with
           drug-related toxicity in these patients.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the antitumor efficacy of this drug in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, dose-escalation, multicenter study.

      Patients receive talotrexin IV over 5 minutes on day 1 OR days 1 and 8 OR days 1, 8, and 15.
      Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 1-6 patients receive escalating doses of talotrexin until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. An additional 6-10 patients are treated at
      the MTD.

      Patients are followed at 1 month.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20-40 patients will be accrued for this study within 9-12
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of malignant solid tumor

               -  Metastatic or inoperable disease

          -  No known curative or survival-prolonging palliative therapy exists OR failed these
             prior therapies

          -  No leukemia

          -  No primary CNS tumor

          -  No third-space fluid collection (i.e., pleural effusion, ascites)

               -  Clinically insignificant small pleural or peritoneal effusions identified by CT
                  scan, MRI, or other diagnostic test allowed

          -  No active* brain metastases, including the following:

               -  Evidence of cerebral edema by CT scan or MRI

               -  Progression since prior imaging study

               -  Requirement for steroids

               -  Clinical symptoms of/from brain metastases NOTE: *Treated and/or stable brain
                  metastasis allowed provided patient is asymptomatic

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy

          -  At least 2 months

        Hematopoietic

          -  Absolute neutrophil count  1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count  100,000/mm^3

          -  RBC folate  lower limit of normal

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin normal

          -  SGOT and SGPT  2.5 times upper limit of normal

        Renal

          -  Creatinine clearance  50 mL/min

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No other uncontrolled serious medical or psychiatric illness

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  No prior bone marrow transplantation

        Chemotherapy

          -  More than 3 weeks since prior chemotherapy (6 weeks for nitrosoureas or mitomycin)

        Endocrine therapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Radiotherapy

          -  More than 3 weeks since prior radiotherapy

          -  No concurrent radiotherapy

        Surgery

          -  At least 3 weeks since prior surgery

        Other

          -  Recovered from prior therapy

          -  More than 3 weeks since prior antifolate therapy
      
