TITLE:
Amifostine in Treating Young Patients With Newly Diagnosed De Novo Myelodysplastic Syndromes

CONDITION:
Myelodysplastic Syndromes

INTERVENTION:
amifostine trihydrate

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as amifostine, work in different ways to stop
      the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.

      PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well amifostine works in treating young
      patients with newly diagnosed de novo myelodysplastic syndromes.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the hematologic effects of amifostine, in terms of, complete and partial
           response, in pediatric patients with newly diagnosed de novo myelodysplastic syndromes
           (MDS).

        -  Determine the safety and efficacy of this drug in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the efficacy of this drug in preventing conversion of MDS to acute myeloid
           leukemia (AML) in terms of the proportion of patients who remain free of AML at the
           completion of study treatment.

        -  Determine the duration of progression-free remission from MDS conversion to AML in
           patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine the effect of karyotypic abnormalities on survival and the duration from
           diagnosis of MDS until conversion to AML in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine the effect of bone marrow blast count on survival and the duration from
           diagnosis of MDS until conversion to AML in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine the effect of the number of cytopenias on survival in patients treated with
           this drug.

        -  Correlate the duration of time from diagnosis of MDS until conversion to AML with
           survival in patients treated with this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive amifostine IV over 1-3 minutes on days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10, 12, 15, 17, and 19.
      Treatment repeats every 5 weeks for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients with stable or responding disease who are planning to
      undergo matched donor bone marrow or cord blood transplantation continue therapy until
      transplantation. Patients with stable or responding disease who are not undergoing
      transplantation may receive up to 4 additional courses of amifostine in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Following completion of therapy with amifostine, patients are followed monthly for 1 year,
      every 2 months for 1 year, every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1 year, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 10-20 patients will be accrued for this study within 5-10
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 1 Year to 21 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed diagnosis of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS)

               -  One of the following subtypes:

                    -  Refractory anemia (RA)

                    -  RA with ringed sideroblasts

                    -  RA with excess blasts

                    -  Refractory cytopenia with multilineage dysplasia (RCMD)

                    -  RCMD and ringed sideroblasts

                    -  MDS, unclassified

                    -  MDS associated with isolated del 5(q)

          -  De novo disease

               -  No treatment-induced MDS

          -  No juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia

          -  No Down syndrome, Fanconi's anemia, or other inherited forms of hypoplastic bone
             marrow failure

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  1 to 21 at original diagnosis

        Performance status

          -  Karnofsky 50-100% (patients > 16 years of age)

          -  Lansky 50-100% (patients 1 to 16 years of age)

        Life expectancy

          -  At least 8 weeks

        Hematopoietic

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin  1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  ALT < 2.5 times ULN

        Renal

          -  Radioisotope glomerular filtration rate  60 mL/min OR

          -  Creatinine clearance > 60 mL/min (based on Schwartz formula)

          -  Calcium normal

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  Serum electrolytes normal

          -  Phosphorus normal

          -  Magnesium normal

          -  Glucose normal

          -  No other concurrent malignancy

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  More than 8 weeks since prior growth factors

          -  No concurrent growth factors

          -  No concurrent hematopoietic stem cell transplantation

          -  No concurrent immunomodulating agents

        Chemotherapy

          -  No prior amifostine

          -  No other concurrent anticancer chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy

          -  No concurrent daily steroid therapy

        Radiotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Surgery

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  No prior therapy for MDS
      
