TITLE:
Trial to Investigate the Efficacy of Olmesartan in Paroxysmal Atrial Fibrillation

CONDITION:
Heart Disease

INTERVENTION:
Olmesartan

SUMMARY:

      Hypothesis:

      Blocking the angiotensin (AT) II type 1 receptor (Olmesartan) reduces the incidence of
      episodes of atrial fibrillation in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation during 12
      months by more than 25% compared to standard medication without angiotensin II type 1
      receptor.

      A total of 422 subjects will be included in the two study groups. The treatment arm will
      receive 40mg Olmesartan per day, the remaining patients will receive placebo. Follow-up is
      12 months. Daily Tele-ECG recordings will determine the cardiac rhythm and asymptomatic
      episodes of atrial fibrillation (AF) every day. Concomitant therapy with AV-nodal blocking
      drugs are allowed during the study. In case of severe AF-induced symptoms, an antiarrhythmic
      "recovery medication" (amiodarone) is allowed during follow-up.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Double-blind, central randomization, two treatment groups, stratified by beta-blocker use.
      211 patients in each treatment arm.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Documented paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: ECG documentation of atrial fibrillation
             at least in one ECG recorded during the last 2 months prior to randomization plus
             additional ECG recording of sinus rhythm at least 12 hours after the above mentioned
             ECG documentation.

          -  Age  18

          -  Patient informed orally and in writing

          -  Written informed consent of the patient

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Strong clinical evidence for therapy with AT II/ACE inhibitors

          -  AT II/ACE inhibitor therapy within the last month

          -  Therapy with antiarrhythmic agents of class I or class III within the last month,
             therapy with amiodarone within the last 3 months

          -  Direct current (DC) cardioversion within the last 3 months

          -  Symptomatic bradycardia

          -  Implanted pacemaker or implanted cardioverter/defibrillator with any antitachycardiac
             algorithm in use

          -  Cardiac surgery or cardiac catheter ablation within the last 3 months

          -  Typical angina pectoris symptoms at rest or during exercise

          -  Known coronary artery disease with indication for intervention

          -  Valvular disease > II degree

          -  Left ventricular ejection fraction < 40%

          -  Diastolic blood pressure > 110mm Hg at rest

          -  Symptomatic arterial hypotension

          -  Known renal artery stenosis

          -  Serum creatinine > 1.8 mval/l

          -  Relevant hepatic or pulmonary disorders

          -  Hyperthyroidism manifested clinically and in laboratory

          -  Known drug intolerance for AT II inhibitors

          -  Females who are pregnant or breast feeding

          -  Females of childbearing potential who are not using a scientifically accepted method
             of contraception

          -  Participation in a clinical trial within the last 30 days

          -  Drug addiction or chronic alcohol abuse

          -  Legal incapacity, or other circumstances which would prevent the patient from
             understanding the aim, nature or extent of the clinical study

          -  Evidence of an uncooperative attitude
      
