TITLE:
Carboplatin in Treating Patients With Stage IC-IV Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer

CONDITION:
Fallopian Tube Cancer

INTERVENTION:
carboplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin, work in different ways to stop
      the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.

      PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is comparing different doses of carboplatin to see
      how well they work in treating patients with stage IC, stage II, stage III, or stage IV
      ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare progression-free survival of patients with stage IC-IV ovarian epithelial,
           fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer treated with flat-dose vs intra-patient
           dose-escalated carboplatin as first-line chemotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare overall clinical response rate and CA 125 response in patients treated with
           these regimens.

        -  Compare overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive a flat dose of carboplatin on day 1.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive intra-patient dose-escalated carboplatin on day 1. In both
           arms, treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, before each treatment course, and then at 2 months
      post-chemotherapy.

      Patients are followed every 2 months for 2 years, every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months
      for 1 year, and then every 6 months thereafter.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,300 patients (650 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal
             cancer*

               -  Stage IC-IV disease

               -  Peritoneal carcinomatosis* (ovarian-type) must not be a mucin-secreting tumor

               -  Stage IC patients must have malignant cells in ascitic fluid or peritoneal
                  washings, tumor on the surface of the ovary, or preoperative capsule rupture
                  NOTE: * Histologic confirmation of a primary source in the ovary is not
                  required.

          -  If biospy is not available, cytology showing an adenocarcinoma is allowed provided
             the following criteria is met:

               -  Patient has a pelvis (ovarian) mass AND all of the following:

                    -  Omental cake or other metastasis is larger than 2 cm in the upper abdomen
                       and/or regional lymph node metastasis irrespective of size OR stage IV
                       disease

                    -  Serum CA 125/CEA ratio > 25 or barium enema (or colonoscopy) and
                       gastroscopy (or radiological examination of the stomach) are negative for
                       the presence of a primary tumor and normal mammography within 6 weeks prior
                       to study randomization

          -  Initial cytoreductive laparotomy or biopsy required within the past 8 weeks

               -  Cytoreductive surgery may or may not have been successful during staging
                  laparotomy

          -  No mixed mesodermal tumors

          -  No borderline ovarian tumors or tumors termed "possibly malignant"

          -  No adenocarcinoma of unknown origin, if histologically confirmed to be a
             mucin-secreting tumor

          -  Considered unsuitable for or unwilling to receive platinum-taxane combination therapy

          -  No concurrent endometrial cancer

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  ECOG 0-3

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Absolute neutrophil count  1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count  100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin normal

          -  AST and ALT  2.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  Alkaline phosphatase  5 times ULN

        Renal

          -  Creatinine clearance  30 mL/min

               -  Obstructive hydronephrosis as a cause of borderline (i.e., creatinine clearance
                  30-45 mL/min) renal function must be treated before study entry

        Cardiovascular

          -  No hypertension

          -  No ischemic heart disease

          -  No myocardial infarction within the past 6 months

          -  No congestive heart failure

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No symptomatic peripheral neuropathy  grade 2

          -  No uncontrolled infection

          -  No other severe and/or uncontrolled medical condition

          -  No other malignancy within the past 5 years except curatively treated carcinoma in
             situ of the cervix or basal cell skin cancer

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  No prior chemotherapy

          -  No other concurrent cytotoxic chemotherapy until progressive disease occurs

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  No prior radiotherapy

        Surgery

          -  See Disease Characteristics
      
