TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Aggressive Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma

CONDITION:
Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
cisplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effect of combination chemotherapy on the body when
      treating patients who have relapsed or refractory aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and recommended dose of pixantrone when
           administered with cytarabine, methylprednisolone, and cisplatin in patients with
           relapsed or refractory aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

        -  Determine the dose-limiting toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the relationship between toxicity and systemic exposure to this regimen in
           these patients.

        -  Determine the safety of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Assess the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the efficacy of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, non-randomized, multicenter, dose-escalation study of
      pixantrone.

      Patients receive pixantrone IV over 1 hour on day 1, methylprednisolone IV over 15 minutes
      on days 1-5, cisplatin IV over 30 minutes on days 1-4, and cytarabine IV over 2 hours on day
      5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 8 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of pixantrone until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which no more than 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Additional patients are treated at the
      recommended dose, which is defined as the dose preceding the MTD.

      Patients are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 3-30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 64 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed relapsed or refractory aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
             (NHL) including the following:

               -  Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma

               -  Transformed NHL

               -  Follicular large cell lymphoma

               -  Peripheral T-cell lymphoma

               -  Unclassified aggressive histology (immunoblastic lymphoma)

          -  Must have received 1 to 3 prior chemotherapy treatment regimens (may include
             doxorubicin up to a cumulative dose of no greater than 450 mg/m^2)

          -  No Burkitt's lymphoma, lymphoblastic lymphoma, or mantle cell lymphoma

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 to 64

        Performance status

          -  WHO 0-1

        Life expectancy

          -  At least 3 months

        Hematopoietic

          -  Neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3*

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3* NOTE: *Lower values may be accepted if evidence
             of bone marrow involvement

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)**

          -  Alkaline phosphatase no greater than 2 times ULN**

          -  AST or ALT no greater than 2 times ULN**

          -  No history or clinical symptoms of hepatitis B or C virus NOTE: **Higher values may
             be accepted if evidence of liver involvement

        Renal

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 mg/dL

        Cardiovascular

          -  LVEF at least 50% by MUGA

          -  No clinically significant cardiovascular abnormalities

          -  No New York Heart Association class II-IV heart disease

          -  No myocardial infarction within the past 6 months

          -  No severe arrhythmia

          -  No uncontrolled hypertension

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception during and for at least 6 months
             after study

          -  No history or clinical symptoms of HIV

          -  No clinically significant neurological abnormalities

          -  No serious uncontrolled infection (NCI CTC grade 3-4)

          -  No condition that would place the patient at undue risk or interfere with the study
             results

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  At least 3 months since prior radioimmunotherapy

        Chemotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy

          -  At least 1 year since prior platinum or cytarabine (unless complete response to
             treatment)

          -  At least 2 years since prior fludarabine or nitrosoureas

          -  No prior cumulative cisplatin greater than 600 mg/m^2

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  See Biologic therapy

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy

          -  No prior radiotherapy to the whole pelvis

        Surgery

          -  At least 1 week since prior minor surgery and recovered

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior major thoracic and/or abdominal surgery and recovered

        Other

          -  At least 1 month since prior investigational drugs

          -  Recovered from prior therapy

          -  No other concurrent investigational drugs
      
