TITLE:
Treatment of Early Onset Schizophrenia Spectrum Disorders (TEOSS)

CONDITION:
Schizophrenia

INTERVENTION:
Risperidone

SUMMARY:

      This study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of risperidone (Risperdal), olanzapine
      (Zyprexa), and molindone (Moban) for the treatment of children and adolescents with
      schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Little research has been conducted on the use of psychotropic agents in children and
      adolescents with early onset schizophrenia spectrum disorders. This study will compare
      antipsychotic agents with different mechanisms of action in children and adolescents who
      have schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder with active psychotic symptoms.

      Participants are randomly assigned to receive risperidone (Risperdal), olanzapine (Zyprexa),
      or molindone (Moban) for 8 weeks. After 11/2005, no additional patients will be assigned to
      olanzapine treatment. Patients with significant improvement and without side effects
      continue maintenance therapy for another 44 weeks. Participants who show significant
      negative symptoms after 8 weeks may be started on a mood stabilizer or antidepressant.
      Weight gain, metabolic changes, neurocognition, functional outcome, psychotic symptoms,
      extrapyramidal side effects, and the ability to sustain effective therapy over time are
      assessed.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 8 Years to 19 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Schizophrenia, schizophreniform disorder, or schizoaffective disorder with psychotic
             symptoms

          -  Free of depot antipsychotic medication for at least 6 months. Oral antipsychotic
             medication at entry into the study is allowed, provided the participant has not had
             an adequate trial during the present episode of psychosis.

          -  If taking antidepressant or mood stabilizing medication, stable dosing for at least
             30 days prior to entry.

          -  Good physical health

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Risperidone (RIS), olanzapine (OLA)*, or molindone (MOL) for 8 weeks or more during
             THIS episode, with 2 weeks at the maximal dose (6 mg/day of RIS, 20 mg/day of OLA, or
             140 mg/day of MOL)

          -  If using antidepressant and/or mood stabilizing medications, treatment for fewer than
             30 days immediately before entry

          -  Intolerance or nonresponse to RIS, OLA*, or MOL during any previous treatment

          -  Bipolar affective disorder,post traumatic stress disorder, personality disorder, or
             psychosis not otherwise specified

          -  Currently meeting Diagnostic and Statistical Manual version IV (DSM IV) criteria for
             major depression episode

          -  DSM IV criteria for substance abuse or dependence with intention to continue illicit
             substance abuse

          -  Endocrinological or neurological conditions which confound the diagnosis or are a
             contraindication to treatment with antipsychotics

          -  Mental retardation

          -  Risk of suicide or homicide that is not adequately controlled in the current setting

          -  Pregnancy or refusal to practice contraception during the study

        "*" OLA exclusion not applicable after 11/2005
      
