TITLE:
Research Study in Patients With Advanced Ovarian Epithelial Cancer

CONDITION:
Ovarian Serous Cystadenocarcinoma

INTERVENTION:
Comparative Genomic Hybridization

SUMMARY:

      This research trial studies tissue samples from patients with ovarian cancer in the
      laboratory. Analyzing tissue samples from patients in the laboratory may help doctors learn
      more about cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Utilize array comparative genomic hybridization and Taqman analyses, a quantitative
      genomic polymerase chain reaction, to validate the observation that a gain in chromosome 8q
      is predictive of shorter progression-free survival in patients with primary grade 2 or grade
      3 advanced serous papillary ovarian cancer.

      II. Utilize these analyses to determine whether a gain in chromosome 8q is predictive of
      worse overall survival in these patients.

      III. Utilize these analyses to determine whether other previously identified chromosomal
      changes (3q gain, 7q gain, 16q loss, and 17pter-q21 loss) predict outcome in these patients
      and the association between these changes and clinical characteristics.

      IV. Utilize these analyses to identify up to 5 additional chromosomal changes and their
      association that may predict outcome (progression-free and overall survival) in these
      patients.

      OUTLINE:

      Genomic DNA is isolated from optimal cutting temperature (OCT)-embedded tissue and analyzed
      using comparative genomic hybridization. The chromosomal changes identified by this method
      are compared to those identified using the Taqman method, a quantitative genomic polymerase
      chain reaction analysis. Chromosome 8q is of specific interest. Other chromosomal changes
      may be detected in chromosomes 3q, 7q, 16q, and/or 17pter-q21.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Stage III or IV, high-grade (grade 2 or 3) ovarian cancers

               -  No borderline or low-grade (grade 1) tumors

               -  Tissue from predominately serous ovarian cancer only

                    -  No clear cell, endometrioid, mucinous, transitional cell, or mixed without
                       predominant serous component

          -  Tissue obtained during prior optimal or suboptimal cytoreductive surgery

          -  Must be enrolled on GOG-0136 and a GOG front-line paclitaxel/platinum chemotherapy
             trial

          -  Frozen tissue and hematoxylin-eosin stained section from the ovary obtained at
             initial surgery

          -  Performance status - GOG 0-2
      
