TITLE:
Buspirone in Reducing Shortness of Breath in Patients With Cancer

CONDITION:
Dyspnea

INTERVENTION:
buspirone hydrochloride

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Buspirone may be effective in reducing dyspnea (shortness of breath) in patients
      with cancer who are undergoing chemotherapy.

      PURPOSE: Randomized clinical trial to study the effectiveness of buspirone in reducing
      shortness of breath in patients who are undergoing chemotherapy for cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Assess the degree to which buspirone can decrease the sensation of dyspnea in patients
           with malignant disease.

        -  Estimate the incidence of dyspnea in patients seen in community oncology practice
           settings.

        -  Investigate interrelationships of fatigue, depression, anxiety, and patient report of
           dyspnea.

        -  Assess the quality of life of patients treated with this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to participating center (CCOP site). Patients are randomized to 1
      of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Beginning on day 7 of chemotherapy, patients receive oral buspirone once a day
           for 3 days and then twice daily for up to 28 days.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo as in arm I. Dyspnea is assessed at baseline.
           Dyspnea, mood, fatigue, depression, anxiety, and quality of life are assessed within
           5-7 days before chemotherapy and immediately following therapy.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 376 patients (188 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 120 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of cancer

          -  Treatment includes the following scenarios:

               -  May have had prior chemotherapy course(s)

               -  Scheduled to receive at least 2 courses of chemotherapy

                    -  Courses may include multiple treatment days such as days 1-5 or day 1-day 8
                       regimens and may include oral regimens

          -  Dyspnea as a symptom within the past 5 days (defined by a score of at least grade 2
             on the Modified Medical Research Council Dyspnea Scale)

               -  All underlying causes of dyspnea have received medical treatment per best
                  clinical judgement of treating physician

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 0-2

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic

          -  Adequate hepatic function (determined by treating oncologist)

        Renal

          -  Adequate renal function (determined by treating oncologist)

        Cardiovascular

          -  Adequate cardiac function (determined by treating oncologist)

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No history of mania or seizures

          -  No prior hospitalization for any psychiatric condition

          -  No prior hypersensitivity to buspirone

          -  Able to swallow medication

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  Concurrent radiotherapy allowed

        Surgery

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  At least 2 weeks since prior and no concurrent monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs)

          -  Concurrent narcotic medications allowed

          -  Concurrent benzodiazepine medications allowed

          -  Concurrent serotonin reuptake inhibitors allowed

          -  No concurrent alcohol
      
