TITLE:
RCT of Antioxidant Therapy to Prevent Preeclampsia in Brazil

CONDITION:
Preeclampsia

INTERVENTION:
Vitamin C and E

SUMMARY:

      The perinatal morbidity and mortality rates for Brazil are five to ten-fold higher than
      those reported for upper income countries. This study tests the likelihood that the joint
      administration of antioxidants vitamin C (1000 mg) and vitamin E (400 IU) will reduce the
      incidence of preeclampsia among chronically hypertensive pregnant patients and patients with
      a past history of preeclampsia/eclampsia.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The maternal, perinatal and neonatal morbidity and mortality rates for Brazil are five to
      ten-fold higher than those reported for upper income countries. In Sao Paulo, 22 percent of
      maternal deaths are attributable to hypertensive complications of pregnancy, which ranks as
      the number one cause of maternal death. Recent advances in the understanding of the
      pathophysiology of preeclampsia suggest the possibility of antioxidant therapy for the
      prevention of preeclampsia. The primary hypothesis is that the joint administration of the
      antioxidants vitamin C (1000 mg) and vitamin E (400 IU) will reduce the incidence of
      preeclampsia among chronically hypertensive pregnant patients and patients with a past
      history of preeclampsia/eclampsia. Secondary outcomes include severity of preeclampsia;
      incidence of gestational hypertension; incidence of premature rupture of the membranes;
      incidence of preterm birth; incidence of low birth weight infants; biomarker level
      correlation with preeclampsia.

      Study sites are high-risk obstetrical clinics in the Brazilian cities of Recife, Botucatu,
      Campinas, and Porto Alegre. The sample size was based on an estimated risk of
      preeclampsia/eclampsia of 21-25% in the control group. The study hypothesizes a 40% absolute
      reduction of risk of preeclampsia; early treatment withdrawal of 3%; withdrawal of consent
      or loss to follow-up of 10%; calculated at a 0.05 significance level with 80% power. Seven
      hundred thirty-four obstetric patients with chronic hypertension or preeclampsia in the
      prior pregnancy presenting for care between 12 weeks and 19 weeks', 6 days gestation will be
      randomized to a double-blinded placebo controlled trial to receive a daily dose of either
      vitamin E (400 International Units) and vitamin C (1000 mg) or placebo from the time of
      enrollment to delivery. The use of MEMS caps enables researchers to accurately track
      compliance.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Gestational age between 12 weeks and 19 weeks, 6 days, inclusive

          -  Chronic hypertension

          -  History of preeclampsia/eclampsia

          -  Attendance at a participating hospital (Recife, Botucatu, Campinas and Porto Alegre,
             Brazil)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Planned delivery elsewhere.

          -  Multifetal gestation.

          -  Allergy to vitamin C or vitamin E.

          -  Requirement for aspirin or anticoagulant medication.

          -  Proteinuria  2+ on dipstick urine test; or proteinuria = 1+ on dipstick and  300
             mg/24 hours.

          -  Pre-pregnancy diabetes mellitus.

          -  Known fetal anomaly incompatible with life.

          -  Prior participation in the study.

          -  Unwillingness to take the study medication.
      
