TITLE:
Trial of Oral Karenitecin in Patients With Solid Tumors and Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Carcinoma

INTERVENTION:
Karenitecin (BNP1350)

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to determine the maximum safe dose of orally administered
      Karenitecin (BNP1350) in patients with solid tumors.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Initially, the safety, side effects and recommended phase 2 dose of oral Karenitecin in
      patients with advanced solid tumors will be determined.

      When the recommended phase 2 dose has been determined, the specified dose will be used to
      determine if Karenitecin is effective in the treatment of patients with relapsed or
      refractory non-small cell lung cancer.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

          -  Patients entering the Phase 1 portion of the study must have a histologically or
             cytologically documented diagnosis of cancer (solid tumors) refractory to
             conventional therapeutic modalities or for which no conventional treatment exists.

          -  Patients entering the Phase 2 portion of the study must have a histologically or
             cytologically documented diagnosis of advanced (Stage IIIb/IV) NSCLC.

          -  Patients entering the Phase 1 portion of the study can have either measurable or
             evaluable disease.

          -  Patients entering the Phase 2 portion of the study must have measurable disease
             meeting RECIST criteria.

          -  Patients must have an ECOG performance status of less than or equal to 1.

          -  More than 2 weeks must have elapsed since previous chemotherapy and 6 weeks from
             previous treatment with nitrosoureas or mitomycin-C.

          -  Patients must have fully recovered from the toxic effects of prior therapy.

          -  Patients entering the Phase 1 portion of the study may have received up to two prior
             chemotherapy programs including adjuvant or neoadjuvant therapy.

          -  Patients entering the Phase 2 portion of the study may have received only one prior
             chemotherapy program including adjuvant or neoadjuvant therapy for NSCLC.

          -  More than 2 weeks must have elapsed since previous radiation therapy and prior
             radiation must be less than or equal to 15% of the bone marrow.

          -  Required Initial Laboratory Data: *ANC  1,500/mm3, *Platelet count  100,000/mm3,
             *SGPT < 1.5 times ULN, *Alkaline phosphatase < 2.0 times ULN, *Bilirubin < 1.5 mg/dl,
             *Serum creatinine < 1.5 times ULN

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnant or lactating women.

          -  Uncontrolled high blood pressure, uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, unstable angina,
             symptomatic congestive heart failure (CHF), myocardial infarction (MI) within 6
             months, or uncontrolled arrhythmia.

          -  Phase 2 no previous or concurrent malignancy

          -  Central Nervous System (CNS) metastasis if neurologically unstable or requiring
             steroid use.

          -  Active infection.

          -  Known positive HIV status.

          -  Conditions requiring use of H2 blockers or other antacids.

          -  Inability to provide informed consent.
      
