TITLE:
Trial of PI-88 With Docetaxel in Advanced Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)

CONDITION:
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung

INTERVENTION:
docetaxel

SUMMARY:

      PI-88 is a new experimental drug that inhibits tumour growth by reducing the formation of
      new blood vessels into tumours. Docetaxel is a standard second-line treatment offered to
      patients with non-small-cell lung cancer who haven't responded to first-line therapies
      (platinum-based drugs or radiotherapy). Of this group of patients, only 20% remain
      progression-free 6 months after starting docetaxel treatment. The PR88202 study has been
      designed to compare two different cancer treatments (docetaxel only, and docetaxel plus
      PI-88) and to work out which is more effective against the cancer. It is hoped that the
      combination of PI-88 with docetaxel will allow patients to extend the time it takes for
      their disease to progress, and also to improve their quality of life.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PR88202 is an open-label randomized study. In the initial phase of the study, patients will
      be randomized to receive weekly docetaxel alone, or PI-88 in combination with weekly
      docetaxel. Both groups will receive docetaxel (30 mg/m2), administered by intravenous
      infusion on days 1, 8 and 15 of a 28-day cycle. The second group only will receive PI-88
      (250 mg/day) in addition to docetaxel; PI-88 will be administered by subcutaneous injection
      on days 1-4, 8-11 and 15-18 of each cycle. The primary efficacy endpoint is the
      non-progression rate at 6 months. In the extension phase of the study, patients in the
      combination arm who have stable disease or an objective response after up to six treatment
      cycles will remain on PI-88 alone as maintenance therapy. Patients who initially receive
      docetaxel alone and who have disease progression or unacceptable toxicity before the
      completion of six cycles will be eligible to receive PI-88 alone as third-line therapy.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  histologically or cytologically confirmed stage IIIb or IV NSCLC that has progressed
             during or after first-line treatment

          -  measurable disease by spiral CT chest scan, as defined in RECIST criteria

          -  performance status 0-1 (ECOG)

          -  life expectancy at least 2 months

          -  adequate hemopoietic, renal and hepatic function

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  current symptomatic central nervous system (CNS) involvement

          -  prior or co-existent malignancies

          -  significant non-malignant disease

          -  acute or chronic gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding in last two years

          -  inflammatory bowel disease

          -  abnormal bleeding tendency

          -  patients at risk of bleeding due to open wounds or planned surgery

          -  clinically significant hemoptysis within the past 4 weeks

          -  bilirubin > upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  ALT and AST > 2.5 times ULN, or > 1.5 times ULN if alkaline phosphatase > 2.5 times
             ULN

          -  alkaline phosphatase > 5 times ULN, unless patient has bone metastases

          -  myocardial infarction, stroke or congestive heart failure within last 3 months

          -  prior treatment with docetaxel

          -  concomitant treatment with aspirin (>100 mg/day), NSAIDs (except selective COX-2
             inhibitors, warfarin (>1 mg/day), heparin, LMWH, anti-platelet drugs, CYP3A4
             inhibitors

          -  women who are pregnant or breast-feeding

          -  women of child-bearing potential not using adequate contraception

          -  history of allergy and/or hypersensitivity to anti-coagulants or thrombolytic agents,
             especially heparin

          -  history of immune-mediated thrombocytopenia, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura or
             other platelet disease

          -  allergy to polysorbate 80 (component of Taxotere)

          -  uncontrolled or serious infection in last 4 weeks
      
