TITLE:
Safety of GM-CT-01 With and Without 5-Fluorouracil in Patients With Solid Tumors

CONDITION:
Colorectal Cancer

INTERVENTION:
GM-CT-01

SUMMARY:

      This is a Phase I, multi-center study of GM-CT-01, which has been shown to increase the
      anti-tumor activity of 5-fluorouracil in mice. The primary reason for doing the study is to
      determine the safety of GM-CT-01 given alone and in combination with therapeutical dosage of
      5-Fluorouracil, in patients who have advanced cancer that can be measured by CT scan.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      5-Fluorouracil is a chemotherapy drug commonly used in cancer patients. Patients with
      different type of solid tumors who have failed standard, approved treatments can be enrolled
      in the study. Escalated doses of GM-CT-01 will be given alone in Cycle 1, and in combination
      with 5-fluorouracil in cycle 2. Patients will be on study for approximately 60 days for
      determination of safety. However, with patient consent treatment can continue until disease
      progression is determined by CT scan. The study secondary reason is to determine whether
      treatment has stabilize the tumors or change it in size (get bigger, smaller or stay the
      same)after Cycle 2 and any additional cycles of treatment.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  The subject is able to give informed consent to participate in this trial (including
             all procedures and follow-up visits).

          -  The subject is male or female at least 18 years of age.

          -  The subject has a documented histologic or cytologic recurrent or metastatic solid
             tumor that is not amenable to curative surgery, radiotherapy, or conventional
             chemotherapy of proven value.

          -  Subjects must have completed previous therapy (chemotherapeutic agents or other
             therapies including radiation) at least 4 weeks prior to study entry.

          -  Following major surgery (e.g. laparotomy), > 4 weeks must have elapsed and subjects
             must have recovered from effects.

          -  Following minor surgery (does not include insertion of vascular access device), > 2
             weeks must have elapsed.

          -  ECOG performance status of 0-2.

          -  The subject has a life expectancy of at least 12 weeks.

          -  Female subjects must be post-menopausal, surgically sterile, or using effective
             contraception.

        Laboratory values prior to administration of study drug:

          -  If female and not post-menopausal, the subject has a negative pregnancy test.

          -  Liver function studies: AST and ALT < 2.5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN);
             total bilirubin < 1.5

          -  Hematopoietic parameters: WBC > 3000 per mm3; Granulocyte count > 1,500 per mm3;
             Platelet count > 100,000 per mm3

          -  Renal: Creatinine < or = ULN

          -  Pulmonary: Dlco > or = 60% of predicted

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  If female, the subject is pregnant or breast feeding.

          -  Central nervous system (CNS) metastases or primary CNS tumors.

          -  The subject has a known hypersensitivity to GM-CT-01 or any of its components.

          -  The subject has congestive heart failure or any other medical condition that could be
             adversely affected by intravenous infusion of up to approximately 200 mL of fluid
             over 60 minutes.

          -  The subject is currently abusing alcohol and/or illicit drugs.

          -  The subject has other significant medical, psychiatric, or social conditions which,
             in the investigators' opinion, may compromise the subject's safety in participating
             in this study.

          -  In the investigators' judgment, the subject would be unreliable in adhering to the
             study visit schedule or other study requirements.

          -  The subject is currently enrolled in a clinical trial or has participated in a
             clinical trial within the 30 days prior to entry into this study.
      
