TITLE:
Diagnosing Tuberculosis in HIV Infected Children in Peru

CONDITION:
Tuberculosis

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      Tuberculosis is a major cause of mortality among AIDS patients in the developing world. The
      diagnosis of tuberculosis in HIV infected children is complicated by inefficient and
      expensive tuberculosis tests and vague diagnostic criteria. This study will evaluate the
      accuracy and efficiency of several different tuberculosis tests that could be used in
      developing countries.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      HIV infection has been shown to increase mortality from tuberculosis (TB) fivefold in parts
      of Subsaharan Africa. Increasingly, HIV infected children in developing countries are
      becoming infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) and dying at an early age. This
      project will evaluate novel approaches to the diagnosis of AIDS-related pediatric TB in a
      hyperendemic setting using rapid, cost-effective Mtb culture and susceptibility methods
      based on direct microscopic observation techniques. This study will utilize alternative
      noninvasive Mtb tests that are performed on nasopharyngeal aspirates (NPA) and stool. An
      optional component will assess improved rapid detection of Mtb by a semi-nested polymerase
      chain reaction assay (N2 PCR), a technique appropriate for regional reference laboratories
      in developing countries.

      Two hundred-sixty children with clinically diagnosed pulmonary TB (including at least 100
      HIV infected children) from the Hospital del Nino, Lima, Peru, and 260 age-matched controls
      will be enrolled in this study. Mtb will be detected in NPAs and stool by new and
      traditional culture methods and by N2 PCR. Gastric aspirates from children with a clinical
      diagnosis of TB will also be tested. Children with a positive N2 PCR but without clinical
      evidence of TB requiring antituberculous therapy will be followed longitudinally.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 12 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

          -  Inability to produce sputum sample

          -  Clinical picture suggestive of pulmonary TB, score > 7 according to the Stegen and
             Toledo criteria as adapted by WHO

        Exclusion Criteria

          -  Antituberculous therapy
      
