TITLE:
Isotretinoin, Interferon Alfa, and Vitamin E in Treating Patients With Stage III or Stage IV Head and Neck Cancer

CONDITION:
Head and Neck Cancer

INTERVENTION:
recombinant interferon alfa

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy such as isotretinoin use different ways to stop tumor
      cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Interferon alfa may interfere with the
      growth of tumor cells. Vitamin E may be able to decrease side effects caused by
      isotretinoin. It is not yet known whether combining isotretinoin and interferon alfa with
      vitamin E is more effective than observation in preventing recurrence of head and neck
      cancer after surgery and/or radiation therapy.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of isotretinoin and
      interferon alfa combined with vitamin E with that of observation in treating patients who
      have undergone surgery and/or radiation therapy for stage III or stage IV head and neck
      cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the efficacy of adjuvant isotretinoin, interferon alfa, and vitamin E, in
           terms of incidence of primary disease recurrence and secondary primary tumor
           development, in patients with stage III or IV squamous cell carcinoma of the head and
           neck previously treated with definitive surgical excision and/or postoperative
           radiotherapy.

        -  Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Compare the overall and disease-free survival of patients treated with this regimen vs
           those who undergo observation only.

        -  Determine whether alterations of p53 gene, retinoic acid receptors, retinoid-regulated
           gene, and interferon-responsive genes are associated with clinical outcome in these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to T
      stage (T1 or T2 vs T3 or T4), N stage (N0 or N1 vs N2 or N3), prior therapy (complete tumor
      resection vs resection and radiotherapy/chemoradiotherapy vs radiotherapy or
      chemoradiotherapy alone), and prior chemotherapy (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1
      of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral isotretinoin once daily, interferon alfa subcutaneously 3
           times weekly, and oral vitamin E 3 times daily. Treatment repeats every month for 12
           courses (1 year) in the absence of disease recurrence or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo observation only for 1 year. Patients are followed every 3
           months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 376 patients (188 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 3.75 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck

               -  Primary site must be within the oral cavity, oropharynx, larynx, or hypopharynx

               -  Stage III or IV primary lesion at diagnosis

               -  No distant metastatic disease at diagnosis

               -  No multiple primary lesions

          -  Currently disease-free after treatment with 1 of the following:

               -  Complete tumor resection

               -  Radiotherapy or chemoradiotherapy alone*

               -  Resection followed by radiotherapy/chemoradiotherapy*

          -  No more than 4-16 weeks since prior surgery and/or radiotherapy/chemoradiotherapy
             NOTE: *Radiotherapy must have been 70-72 Gy in 1.8-2.0 Gy fractions to the primary
             tumor and clinically positive neck nodes and 44-50 Gy in 1.8-2.0 Gy fractions to
             clinically negative nodes, including the lower neck

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  ECOG 0-1

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 mg/dL

          -  AST and ALT no greater than 2 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  Alkaline phosphatase no greater than 2 times ULN

        Renal

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.2 mg/dL

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception for 1 month prior to, during, and
             for 1 month after study therapy

          -  Electrolytes normal

          -  Fasting serum triglyceride level no greater than 2 times ULN (anti-triglyceride
             medication allowed)

          -  No other malignancy within the past 2 years except localized basal cell or squamous
             cell skin cancer

          -  No other concurrent medical condition that would preclude study compliance

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy and recovered

               -  Prior neoadjuvant chemotherapy allowed

               -  Prior chemotherapy administered concurrently with radiotherapy allowed

          -  No other concurrent chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  Recovered from prior radiotherapy

        Surgery

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  Recovered from prior surgery

        Other

          -  No history of megadose vitamin A (more than 25,000 I.U.)

          -  No other clinical trial enrollment that would preclude adjuvant systemic therapy

          -  No concurrent vitamin supplements containing vitamin A
      
