TITLE:
Bortezomib in Treating Patients With Advanced Cancer and Kidney Dysfunction

CONDITION:
Adult Grade III Lymphomatoid Granulomatosis

INTERVENTION:
bortezomib

SUMMARY:

      Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of bortezomib in treating patients who have
      advanced cancer and kidney dysfunction. Bortezomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by
      blocking the enzymes necessary for cancer cell growth.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profile of PS-341 in patients with
      advanced malignancy and mild, moderate or severe renal insufficiency.

      II. Evaluate the safety, tolerability, and the maximum tolerated dose of PS-341 for patients
      with varying degrees of renal insufficiency.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      most recent creatinine clearance (greater than 60 mL/min vs 40-59 mL/min vs 20-39 mL/min vs
      less than 20 mL/min vs any creatinine clearance and undergoing renal dialysis).

      Patients receive bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Courses repeat
      every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of bortezomib until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, an additional
      cohort of up to 12 patients is treated at the MTD.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60-69 patients (at least 12 per stratum) will be accrued for
      this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Histologic proof of malignancy (including non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and multiple
             myeloma)

          -  Patients must have measurable or evaluable disease; patients with reliable tumor
             markers (as determined by protocol chairman) are eligible for participation

          -  ANC >= 1000/uL

          -  PLT >= 50,000/uL

          -  Total bilirubin =< 1.5 x upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  AST =< 2.5 x ULN or AST =< 5 x ULN if liver involvement

          -  Patients with abnormal kidney function will be allowed and will be grouped
             accordingly

          -  Willingness to return to treating institution for follow-up

          -  Life expectancy >= 12 weeks

          -  Willingness to provide all biologic specimens as required by the protocol

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Known standard therapy for the patient's disease that is potentially curative or
             definitely capable of extending life expectancy

          -  ECOG performance status (PS) 3 or 4

          -  Uncontrolled intercurrent illness including but not limited to ongoing or active
             infection, symptomatic congestive heart failure, unstable angina pectoris, cardiac
             arrhythmia, or psychiatric illness/social situations that would limit compliance with
             study requirements

          -  Any of the following prior therapies:

               -  Chemotherapy  4 weeks

               -  Mitomycin C/nitrosoureas  6 weeks

               -  Immunotherapy  4 weeks

               -  Biologic therapy  4 weeks

               -  Radiation therapy  2 weeks

               -  Radiation to > 50 % of bone marrow (excepting patients who have had total body
                  irradiation incorporated into bone marrow or stem cell transplantation; all
                  other eligibility criteria still apply)

               -  PS-341 treatment

          -  Failure to fully recover from effects of prior chemotherapy regardless of interval
             since last treatment (excludes renal function)

          -  New York Heart Association classification III or IV

          -  Symptomatic CNS metastases; patients who have received definitive treatment for brain
             metastases (radiation and/or surgery) and are stable for >= 8 weeks are eligible;
             eligible patients with brain metastases should not be taking enzyme-inducing
             anticonvulsants and should be receiving stable doses of steroids

          -  Any of the following:

               -  Pregnant women

               -  Nursing women

               -  Men or women of childbearing potential who are unwilling to employ adequate
                  contraception (condoms, diaphragm, birth control pills, injections, intrauterine
                  device [IUD], or abstinence, etc.)

               -  This study involves an investigational agent whose genotoxic, mutagenic and
                  teratogenic effects on the developing fetus and newborn are unknown

          -  Other concurrent chemotherapy, immunotherapy, or radiotherapy

          -  HIV-positive patients receiving anti-retroviral therapy (HAART); there is a potential
             for pharmacokinetic interactions

          -  Concurrent use of other investigational agent (including thalidomide); bisphosphonate
             therapy (e.g. pamidronate or zoledronate) will not be considered investigational
             agents for the purpose of trial eligibility

          -  Pre-existing grade >= 2 neuropathy
      
