TITLE:
Safety and Efficacy Study of Photopheresis With UVADEX to Prevent Graft-versus-Host Disease

CONDITION:
Graft-versus-Host Disease

INTERVENTION:
Methoxsalen

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether Extracorporeal Photopheresis with UVADEX
      (ECP) prior to bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplantation is effective in the
      prevention of Graft-versus-Host Disease (GvHD).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Approximately 30% of HLA-identical related bone marrow graft recipients and up to 90% of
      patients receiving bone marrow from unrelated donors develop significant acute GvHD despite
      the use of prophylactic therapies such as cyclosporine and methotrexate. About half of these
      patients respond to initial treatment with steroids and require no further treatment. The
      remainder of these patients are either unresponsive to initial therapy or become
      steroid-resistant over time. The prognosis in these cases is poor and mortality for patients
      with steroid-resistant GvHD may be as high as 50%.

      ECP is a technique in which peripheral white blood cells are exposed to a photoactivatable
      compound (UVADEX) administered extracorporeally and ultraviolet A light. After cells are
      reinfused into the patient, their function is altered, thereby activating mechanisms that
      allow for further regulation of specific lymphocyte populations. ECP has shown activity in
      several inflammatory and autoimmune diseases, including scleroderma, rheumatoid arthritis,
      transplantation rejection, acute and chronic GvHD.

      In a previous single-center, open label, single-arm study of 56 patients receiving ECP
      treatment on two consecutive days and reduced-intensity bone-marrow conditioning prior to
      bone marrow transplantation from matched or partially matched human donors, the incidence of
      grade II-IV acute GvHD was less than 10%. This is in contrast to an expected incidence of
      approximately 40%.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the role of ECP, administered pre-transplant, in
      preventing GvHD when used in conjunction with a standard myeloablative conditioning regimen.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with a diagnosis of a malignancy of the blood (e.g. leukemia) for which
             allogeneic bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplantation is a treatment
             option.

          -  Patients who are candidates for a standard allogenic bone marrow transplant or PBSC
             transplant.

          -  Patients must have adequate renal, hepatic, pulmonary and cardiac function to enable
             the patient to tolerate shifts in the volumes of body fluids associated with
             extracorporeal photopheresis, as determined by the physician's clinical judgement.

          -  Patients must weigh at least 40 kg (88 lbs)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients who have received a prior bone marrow transplant or peripheral blood stem
             cell transplant.
      
