TITLE:
Study of Decision Making in Patients Participating in Phase I Clinical Trials

CONDITION:
Psychosocial Effects of Cancer and Its Treatment

INTERVENTION:
psychosocial assessment and care

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Studying individuals who are enrolled in phase I clinical trials may help to
      improve the way in which clinical trials are conducted.

      PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying patients' personality traits, reasons for
      participating in the trial, and understanding of their medical situation, prognosis, and
      risks and benefits of participating in a phase I trial.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the range of personality traits of patients enrolled in a phase I clinical
           trial.

        -  Determine these patients' understanding of their medical situation and prognosis.

        -  Determine these patients' understanding of risks and benefits of phase I clinical
           trials.

        -  Determine these patients' reasons for participating in a phase I clinical trial.

        -  Determine the risk/benefit trade-offs of these patients.

        -  Determine the existential outlook of these patients.

        -  Determine the information gathering nature of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Before beginning phase I clinical trial treatment, patients complete a survey over 30-45
      minutes administered by an interviewer. Patients then self-administer the Temperament and
      Character Inventory assessment over 30 minutes.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 250 patients will be accrued for this study within 6
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Consented to enrollment in a phase I cancer clinical trial

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic

          -  Not specified

        Renal

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  Understands written English

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Surgery

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  No concurrent enrollment in other clinical trials evaluating phase I patient
             attitudes
      
