TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Stage IIIB, Stage IV, or Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Lung Cancer

INTERVENTION:
carboplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy such as gemcitabine, carboplatin, and paclitaxel use
      different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more
      than one drug may kill more tumor cells. It is not yet known which chemotherapy regimen is
      more effective in treating non-small cell lung cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of different combination
      chemotherapy regimens in treating patients who have stage IIIB, stage IV, or recurrent
      non-small cell lung cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients with stage IIIB or IV or recurrent non-small
           cell lung cancer treated with gemcitabine and carboplatin vs gemcitabine and paclitaxel
           vs paclitaxel and carboplatin.

        -  Compare the overall response rate and time to progression in patients treated with
           these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      weight loss within the past 6 months (less than 5% vs at least 5%), disease stage (IIIB vs
      IV), and brain metastases (present vs absent). Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and carboplatin
           IV over 15-30 minutes on day 1.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and paclitaxel
           IV over 3 hours on day 1.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 15-30
           minutes on day 1.

      In all arms, treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, every 6 weeks during study treatment, and then
      every 3 months until progressive disease is documented.

      Patients are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,134 patients (378 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) of 1 of the following
             types:

               -  Squamous cell

               -  Adenocarcinoma

               -  Large cell anaplastic

               -  Bronchoalveolar

               -  Non-small cell carcinoma not otherwise specified NOTE: Mixed tumors are
                  categorized by the predominant cell type (tumors with small-cell anaplastic
                  elements are ineligible)

          -  Evidence of at least 1 of the following:

               -  Clinically documented recurrent disease after prior radiation or surgery

               -  Stage IV disease (distant metastases)

               -  Stage IIIB disease presenting with 1 of the following:

                    -  Pleural or pericardial effusion by CT scan or chest x-ray

                    -  Pleural implants documented pathologically or seen on CT scan or x-ray

          -  Measurable or evaluable disease

          -  No brain metastases unless clinically stable after surgery and/or radiotherapy

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  ECOG 0-1

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 mg/dL

          -  AST less than 5 times upper limit of normal

        Renal

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 mg/dL OR

          -  Creatinine clearance at least 40 mL/min

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No hypersensitivity to agents that contain Cremophor EL (polyoxyethylated castor oil)

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  No prior chemotherapy for advanced NSCLC

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  Recovered from prior radiotherapy

          -  No prior radiotherapy to the only site of measurable disease, unless the site had
             subsequent progression of disease documented by physical exam, radiography, or
             pathology

          -  No concurrent radiotherapy (except for brain metastases)

        Surgery

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Other

          -  No concurrent aminoglycoside antibiotics
      
