TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy Plus Oblimersen in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors

CONDITION:
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific

INTERVENTION:
oblimersen sodium

SUMMARY:

      Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combining carboplatin and paclitaxel with
      oblimersen in treating patients who have advanced solid tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy
      use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Oblimersen
      may increase the effectiveness of carboplatin and paclitaxel by making tumor cells more
      sensitive to the drugs.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of G3139 in combination with carboplatin
      and paclitaxel.

      II. To determine the quantitative and qualitative nature of toxicities of G3139 with
      carboplatin and paclitaxel.

      III. To measure G3139 activity in peripheral blood lymphocytes by quantitating Bcl-2/Bax
      expression and transcription, as well as T-cell functioning and signaling.

      IV. To measure G3139 activity in tumor biopsy specimens by quantitating Bcl-2/Bax expression
      and transcription.

      V. To determine the pharmacokinetics of carboplatin, paclitaxel, and G3139, as well as
      intratumoral G3139 levels.

      VI. To screen various signal transduction pathways that may be affected by Bcl-2
      down-regulation in PBMC and tumor biopsy specimens in order to better understand the
      mechanism of G3139 chemosensitization.

      VII. To seek preliminary evidence of antitumor activity for the combination of G3139,
      carboplatin, and paclitaxel.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of oblimersen.

      Patients receive oblimersen IV continuously on days 1-7 and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and
      carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 4. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of oblimersen until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      An additional cohort of 12-15 patients receives treatment as above with oblimersen at the
      MTD.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients must have histologically confirmed solid malignancy that is metastatic or
             unresectable and for which no standard curative therapy exists; patients with
             lymphoma are excluded

          -  ECOG performance status 0, 1, or 2 (Karnofsky >= 60%)

          -  Life expectancy of greater than 3 months

          -  Leukocytes >= 3,000/mm^3

          -  Absolute neutrophil count >= 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelets >= 100,000/mm^3

          -  Total bilirubin within normal institutional limits

          -  AST(SGOT)/ALT(SGPT) =< 2.5 X institutional upper limit of normal

          -  Creatinine within normal institutional limits OR creatinine clearance >= 60
             mL/min/1.73 m^2 for patients with creatinine levels above institutional normal

          -  Women of child-bearing potential and men must agree to use adequate contraception
             (hormonal or barrier method of birth control; abstinence) prior to study entry, for
             the duration of study participation, and for three months after discontinuation of
             treatment; should a woman become pregnant or suspect she is pregnant while
             participating in this study, she should inform her treating physician immediately

          -  Ability to understand and the willingness to sign a written informed consent document

          -  Patients will need to have a central line or nurse-placed PICC line in place prior to
             treatment on the protocol

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients who have had chemotherapy or radiotherapy within 4 weeks (6 weeks for
             nitrosoureas or mitomycin C) prior to entering the study or those who have not
             recovered from adverse events due to agents administered more than 4 weeks earlier

          -  Patients may not be receiving any other investigational agents

          -  Patients with known brain metastases will be excluded from this clinical trial

          -  History of allergic reactions attributed to compounds of similar chemical or biologic
             composition to G3139 or other agents used in study, unless approved by investigator

          -  No pre-existing grade >= 2 neuropathy

          -  No personal history of a bleeding diathesis given potential significant antiplatelet
             effects of therapy

          -  Uncontrolled intercurrent illness including, but not limited to, ongoing or active
             infection, symptomatic congestive heart failure, unstable angina pectoris, cardiac
             arrhythmia, or psychiatric illness/social situations that would limit compliance with
             study requirements

          -  Pregnant women are excluded from this study; breastfeeding should be discontinued if
             the mother is treated with G3139

          -  HIV-positive patients receiving combination anti-retroviral therapy are excluded from
             the study
      
