TITLE:
Hormone Therapy and OGX-011 Before Radical Prostatectomy in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
buserelin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Androgens can stimulate the growth of prostate cancer cells. Drugs such as
      flutamide and buserelin may stop the adrenal glands from producing androgens. OGX-011 may
      help flutamide and buserelin kill more tumor cells by making tumor cells more sensitive to
      the drugs. Giving flutamide and buserelin with OGX-011 before surgery may shrink the tumor
      so it can be removed during surgery.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combining hormone therapy with OGX-011
      before radical prostatectomy in treating patients who have prostate cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of OGX-011
           (clusterin antisense oligonucleotide) when administered with neoadjuvant hormonal
           therapy before radical prostatectomy in patients with adenocarcinoma of the prostate.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of OGX-011 when this regimen is administered in these
           patients..

        -  Assess the effects of this regimen on pathologic complete response rates in these
           patients.

        -  Correlate plasma and/or prostate concentrations of OGX-011 with patient response or
           toxicity measures.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of OGX-011.

      Patients receive OGX-011 IV over 2 hours on days 1, 3, 5, 8, 15, 22, and 29; oral flutamide
      three times daily for 4 weeks; and buserelin subcutaneously on day 1.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients (except for 1 patient at starting dose) receive escalating doses of
      OGX-011 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose
      at which at least 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. The
      recommended phase II dose is the dose preceding the MTD.

      Patients undergo radical prostatectomy and bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy 1 week after the
      last dose of neoadjuvant therapy.

      Patients are followed at 7 days after surgery and then at 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 25-33 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the prostate

               -  High-risk, localized disease that is previously untreated

               -  Minimum of 2 positive biopsies

               -  Meets at least 1 of the following criteria:

                    -  Stage T3

                    -  Serum PSA greater than 10 ng/mL

                    -  Gleason score 7-10

                    -  Gleason score 6 and at least 3 positive biopsies

          -  Potential candidate for radical prostatectomy

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  Over 18

        Performance status

          -  ECOG 0-1

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  WBC at least 3,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin at least 10.0 g/dL

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin normal

          -  AST and ALT normal

          -  PTT normal

          -  INR normal

        Renal

          -  Creatinine normal

        Cardiovascular

          -  No significant cardiac dysfunction

        Other

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No known hypersensitivity to oligonucleotides, luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone
             analogs, or anti-androgens

          -  No evidence of active uncontrolled infection

          -  No other malignancy within the past 5 years except adequately treated nonmelanoma
             skin cancer

          -  No other serious illness, psychiatric disorder, or medical condition that would
             preclude study compliance

          -  No history of a significant neurological disorder that would preclude informed
             consent

          -  No geographical condition that would preclude study compliance

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  No prior chemotherapy for prostate cancer

        Endocrine therapy

          -  No prior hormonal therapy for prostate cancer

        Radiotherapy

          -  No prior radiotherapy for prostate cancer

          -  No concurrent radiotherapy

        Surgery

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  No concurrent heparin or warfarin anticoagulation

          -  No other concurrent investigational therapy

          -  No other concurrent cytotoxic therapy
      
