TITLE:
Celecoxib and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Lung Cancer

INTERVENTION:
celecoxib

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Celecoxib may
      stop the growth of tumor cells by stopping blood flow to the tumor and may make the tumor
      cells more sensitive to radiation therapy.

      PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of combining celecoxib with radiation
      therapy in treating patients who have locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and the recommended phase II dose of concurrent
           celecoxib and limited-field radiotherapy in intermediate-prognosis patients with
           locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer.

        -  Determine the efficacy and toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine how the predictors of mortality in the general population (i.e., comorbid
           conditions, functional status, quality of life, and psychological status) influence
           prognosis, toxicity, and outcomes of therapy in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate circulating levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), basic
           fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), and interleukin-8 (IL8) with survival in patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate circulating levels of interleukin-1 (IL1), interleukin-6 (IL6), and
           transforming growth factor-beta (TGFB) with pulmonary toxicity in patients treated with
           this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation study of celecoxib followed by a phase II,
      multicenter study.

        -  Phase I: Patients receive oral celecoxib twice daily. Beginning on day 6, patients
           undergo thoracic radiotherapy 5 days a week for 3-6.5 weeks . Patients continue to
           receive celecoxib for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Phase II: If fewer than 3 of the first 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity,
           then the dose of celecoxib is escalated for all patients in the study, including those
           in the first cohort.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and at 3, 6, and 12 months after start of therapy.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 6-12 patients will be accrued for the phase I portion of this
      study and a total of 116 patients will be accrued for the phase II portion of this study
      within 25 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed non-small cell lung cancer

               -  Inoperable stage IIB OR

               -  Unresectable stage IIIA or IIIB

               -  No evidence of hematogenous metastases

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  Zubrod 2 AND more than 5% weight loss over the past 3 months OR

          -  Zubrod 0-1 AND less than 5% weight loss over the past 3 months and refuses
             chemotherapy or are medically unable to tolerate combined modality therapy

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 2 times upper limit of normal

          -  International Normalized Ratio (INR) no greater than 3.0 if taking warfarin

        Renal

          -  Creatinine clearance at least 50 mL/min

        Other

          -  No active gastrointestinal ulcers or bleeding within the past 3 months

          -  No other malignancy within the past 3 years except nonmelanoma skin cancer

          -  No known hypersensitivity to celecoxib

          -  No prior allergic-type reactions to sulfonamides

          -  No prior asthma, urticaria, or allergic-type reactions to aspirin or other
             nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  No prior neoadjuvant chemotherapy

          -  No concurrent chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy

          -  No concurrent corticosteroids

        Radiotherapy

          -  No prior thoracic radiotherapy

        Surgery

          -  No prior complete or subtotal tumor resection

        Other

          -  No concurrent NSAIDs, lithium, furosemide, or angiotensin-converting enzyme
             inhibitors

          -  Concurrent aspirin (325 mg/day) for cardioprotection allowed
      
