TITLE:
Study of Inborn Errors of Cholesterol Synthesis and Related Disorders

CONDITION:
Lipoidosis

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This study will investigate the cause and medical problems associated with a group of
      genetic disorders known as inborn errors of cholesterol synthesis, in which the body does
      not produce cholesterol. People with this disorder may have birth defects and learning and
      behavioral problems.

      People with an inborn error of cholesterol synthesis and related disorders, including
      Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome, lathosterolosis, desmosterolosis, X-linked dominant
      chondrodysplasia, CHILD syndrome, Greenberg dysplasia, and some cases of Antley-Bixler
      syndrome, may be eligible for this study. People who are carriers of the disorders also may
      enroll.

      Participants and family members will provide blood and urine samples, as well as other
      tissue samples collected during medically indicated procedures such as biopsy or surgery.
      These tissues may include, for example, gallstones, cataracts, cerebrospinal fluid, amniotic
      fluid, lymph tissue, and DNA samples. In rare instances, a skin biopsy may be requested to
      aid in establishing a diagnosis.

      Medical information will also be gathered from medical records, photographs, and X-rays.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Over the past 15 years, it has become clear that inborn errors of cholesterol synthesis give
      rise to human malformation/mental retardation syndromes. Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome is the
      prototypical example of a post-squalene inborn error of metabolism; however, this group of
      disorders now includes lathosterolosis, desmosterolosis, X-linked dominant chondrodysplasia
      (CDPX2), CHILD syndrome, HEM dysplasia, and some cases of Antley-Bixler syndrome (1-3). Due
      to the extremely rare occurrence of some of these disorders, the full phenotypic spectrum
      has yet to be defined. Cholesterol transport in cells can also cause a disorder known as
      Niemann-Pick Disease type C (NPC). NPC belongs to a group of disorders known as lysosomal
      storage disorders. The purpose of this protocol is to 1) allow for the collection of
      biomaterial and medical information that can be studied to gain insight into the
      pathological processes; 2) allow for the collection of DNA and medical information from
      individuals who have a phenotypic resemblance to known disorders of cholesterol synthesis,
      lysosomal storage disorders or individuals who may be carriers of these disorders.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Subjects will be eligible for this study if they have or are suspected to have an inborn
        error of cholesterol synthesis or if they are related to a proband with a suspected inborn
        error of cholesterol synthesis. No exclusions will be made based on gender, ethnicity or
        age.
      
