TITLE:
A HIV Study Of A Fixed-Dose Combination Tablet In Antiretroviral Experienced Patients

CONDITION:
Infection, Human Immunodeficiency Virus I

INTERVENTION:
abacavir/lamivudine

SUMMARY:

      This study is a 48-week study designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a fixed-dose
      combination tablet administered once-a-day versus the individual tablets administered
      twice-a-day within 3-drug combination regimens in ART (antiretroviral)-experienced HIV-1
      infected patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Currently receiving an initial antiretroviral therapy (ART) regimen composed of the
             drug abacavir (ABC) 300mg twice a day, plus the drug 3TC (lamivudine) 150mg twice a
             day in combination with either a protease inhibitor or non-nucleoside reductase
             inhibitor (NNRTI) for at least 24 weeks.

          -  NOTE: Subjects who have required a change in initial protease inhibitor (PI) or NNRTI
             therapy due to intolerance (not treatment failure) are eligible. Subject must be on a
             stable regimen of the second PI or NNRTI therapy for at least 6 months before
             enrollment in this study.

          -  Plasma HIV-1 RNA less than 400 copies/mL for at least 3 months immediately preceding
             the screening visit, and at screening.

          -  CD4+ cell count of at least 50 cells/mm3 at screening.

          -  Written informed consent to participate in the study before participation.

          -  Male or female (Females of child-bearing potential must have a negative serum
             pregnancy test at screening and agree to an acceptable method of contraception.)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  History of a CDC Clinical Category C event requiring treatment (not including
             cutaneous Kaposi's sarcoma) within 45 days of the screening visit. Treatment for the
             acute event must have been completed at least 30 days before screening.

          -  Subject is enrolled in one or more investigational drug studies which may impact HIV
             RNA suppression.

          -  Subject is unable to complete the 48-week dosing period, evaluations and assessments.

          -  Subject is pregnant or breastfeeding.

          -  History of clinically relevant inflammation of the pancreas or hepatitis within 6
             months prior to screening.

          -  Subject suffers from a serious medical condition, such as diabetes or heart problem.

          -  Pre-existing mental, physical, or substance abuse disorder.

          -  History of inflammatory bowel disease or malignancy, intestinal ischemia,
             malabsorption, or other gastrointestinal dysfunction.

          -  Abnormal laboratory results within 28 days before the first dose of study medication.

          -  Required treatment with radiation therapy or cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents within
             28 days before screening, or will need these during the study.

          -  Subject requires treatment with immunomodulating drugs such as systemic
             corticosteroids, interleukins, vaccines, or interferons within 28 days prior to
             screening, or subject has received an HIV-1 immunotherapeutic vaccine within 90 days
             prior to screening.

          -  Asthmatic subjects using inhaled corticosteroids are eligible for enrollment.

          -  Subject requires treatment with foscarnet, hydroxyurea or other agents with
             documented activity against HIV-1 in vitro within 28 days of screening.

          -  Subject has a history of allergy to any of the study drugs.
      
