TITLE:
Collection of Blood From Patients With Cancer

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This study will collect blood from patients with cancer to study the level of cells which
      decrease the immune response (suppressor cells) before and after chemotherapy. Patients 18
      years of age and older with cancer may participate. This study does not involve treatment.

      Participants will have about 50 ml (3 tablespoonfuls) of blood drawn. Depending on their
      condition, patients may be invited to enroll in a clinical research study involving
      chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or surgery. Additional 40-ml blood samples may be drawn during
      the course of treatment.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Background:

        -  Correlative studies performed on biospecimens of human subjects can be used to
           investigate the biology of solid tumors, inform the development of new strategies for
           treating those cancers, and evaluate these new therapeutic approaches. Specific areas
           of interest include, but are not limited to:

        -  the underlying mechanisms of tumor-specific immune response and suppression in cancer
           patients

        -  genetic and molecular profiling of tumors through circulating tumor cell (cTC),
           circulating DNA, and tissue analysis

        -  investigation of potential early diagnostic and prognostic indicators for solid tumors
           such as cTCs and miRNA expression of serum exosomes

        -  identification of mechanisms of drug-related adverse events and correlation with
           clinical parameters

        -  the role of commensal gut microbiota in both the innate and adaptive responses to
           tumors as well as with the use of anticancer agents

      Objectives:

        -  Analyze biospecimens such as tissue, urine, saliva, stool and blood components, which
           include serum, leukocytes, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), and circulating
           tumor cells (cTC), of human subjects.

        -  Correlate analysis results with clinical parameters such as demographics, toxicities,
           and treatment outcomes.

        -  Undertake genetic analysis of both prokaryotic and eukaryotic samples for advanced
           mutational analysis.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients and healthy volunteers whose biospecimens are of interest to NIH
           investigators.

        -  18 year of age or older.

      Design:

      - Subject cases will be evaluated by NCI or Interventional Radiology, NIH Clinical Center
      personnel. Blood, tissue, urine, saliva or other samples may be collected at the initial
      visit and at follow-up visits.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 100 Years
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Patients 18 years of age and older are eligible.

        Patients must have a performance status of ECOG 0, 1, 2, or 3 for admission to this
        protocol.

        INCLUSION FOR APHERESIS:

        Hemoglobin greater than or equal to 10 mg/dL and platelet count > 75,000/mm(3)

        Weight greater than 25 kg

        HIV negative

        Prothrombin Time within normal limits

        Partial Thromboplastin Time within normal limits

        Medically indicated central line in place or adequate peripheral venous access

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Children will not be eligible.
      
