TITLE:
Safety and Efficacy of a Monoclonal Antibody for Treatment of Rheumatoid Arthritis.

CONDITION:
Rheumatoid Arthritis

INTERVENTION:
efalizumab

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether a humanized monoclonal antibody
      (efalizumab) is safe and effective in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion criteria:

          -  Clinical diagnosis of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis.

          -  On stable dose of methotrexate.

          -  18 to 80 years of age.

          -  Less than 275 lbs.

        Exclusion criteria:

          -  Joint replacement surgery within 60 days of the start of drug dosing.

          -  Intra-articular cortisone injections within 28 days of the start of drug dosing.

          -  Pregnancy.

          -  History of severe allergic or anaphylactic reactions.

          -  Active bacterial, viral, fungal, mycobacterium tuberculosis.

          -  Positive PPD test.

          -  History of any opportunistic infection.

          -  Serious persisting local or systemic infection.

          -  History of malignancy within the past five years.

          -  Received any vaccine within 28 days of the start of study drug dosing.

          -  Joint replacement therapy planned within nine months of the start of study drug
             dosing.

          -  Chronic disorders apart from RA affecting the joints.

          -  Significant systemic involvement secondary to RA.

          -  COPD, asthma, or other pulmonary disease.

          -  Received any DMARD other than methotrexate in the 28 days prior to the start of study
             drug dosing.

          -  Approved biologic RA therapy during the 28 days or 7 half-lives of the drug prior to
             the start of drug dosing.

          -  Investigational drug and/or treatment during the 28 days or seven half-lives of the
             investigational drug prior to the start of study drug dosing.

          -  Liver disease or abnormal hepatic function.

          -  Serum creatinine level > 1.5 mg/dL.

          -  Platelet count < 125,000 cells/mm3.

          -  WBC count < 3,500 cells/mm3.

          -  Seropositive for hepatitis B surface antigen.

          -  Seropositive for hepatitis C antibody.

          -  Known seropositivity for HIV.
      
