TITLE:
Repinotan in Patients With Acute Ischemic Stroke

CONDITION:
Stroke

INTERVENTION:
Repinotan HCl (BAYX3702)

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this trial is to evaluate Repinotan HCl in patients with acute ischemic
      stroke. At study entry patients will be randomized to Repinotan HCl or placebo in a 1:1
      ratio. The total treatment period wil be 72 hours.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Acute ischemic stroke of hemispheric localization (exclude brainstem and cerebellum),
             of suspected thromboembolic origin.

          -  Males or females aged 18 years or over.

          -  National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIH-SS) total score 8 to 23 with a motor
             deficit >/= 2 (for either one arm or leg) and level of consciousness < 2 and at least
             one of the following: Visual field deficit, neglect, or aphasia. If a patient
             receives t-PA, NIH-SS must be performed prior to receiving the study drug but after
             infusion of t-PA is initiated.

          -  Signed informed consent from patient or legally authorized representative

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  CT scan evidence of:

          -  Clearly defined areas of hypodensity indicating infarction of >1/3 of the MCA
             territory or evidence of significant mass effect with shift of midline or major areas
             of sulcal effacement associated with loss of cortical definition (grey-white
             distinction). Minor early CT changes are common in MCA strokes and patients with
             early or subtle changes are eligible.

          -  A primary intra-cerebral haemorrhage or any finding not consistent with an acute
             ischemic stroke as the cause of presenting symptoms.

          -  Clinical evidence of acute stroke due to lacunar infarct (pure motor hemiplegia; pure
             sensory deficit, ataxia/clumsy hand syndromes)

          -  Neurological (other than the presenting stroke) or psychiatric conditions that may
             affect the patient's functional status and/or that may interfere with the patient's
             assessment

          -  Clinically relevant pre-existing neurological deficit (Historical Rankin score >/= 2
             regardless of cause)

          -  Generalized seizures having developed since the onset of stroke symptoms

          -  Systolic blood pressure > 210 or < 110 mmHg (confirmed by up to three readings prior
             to randomization)

          -  Diastolic blood pressure > 110 or < 60 mmHg (confirmed by up to three readings prior
             to randomization)

          -  Myocardial infarction within 3 months, unstable angina within 3-5 days prior to
             starting infusion, unstable supra-ventricular and/or ventricular arrhythmia, severe
             conduction defect (AV block grades 2 and 3), complete left or right Bundle Branch
             Block, bradycardia (heart rate [HR] less than 50 bpm), uncompensated heart failure

          -  History of myocarditis, cardiomyopathy or aortic stenosis

          -  Patients known to have prolonged QTc intervals (inherited and sporadic syndromes of
             QTc prolongation or QTc interval > 450 msec males and 470 msec females on baseline
             ECG) or using Class IA or Class III antiarrhythmic drugs (e.g., quinidine,
             procainamide, amiodarone, sotalol)

          -  Any patients that require initiation of new digoxin therapy are excluded. Patients
             already on digoxin therapy (for at least 1 month stable dose) at time of enrollment
             will be allowed in the study.

          -  Electrolyte imbalance at baseline. Should the results not be available before
             starting the study drug infusion, the patients will be allowed in the study providing
             that the corrective therapy of any abnormal electrolyte results is implemented
             immediately upon availability of the laboratory report.

          -  Any conditions predisposing to electrolyte imbalances (e.g., chronic vomiting,
             anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa) will also be excluded at baseline.

          -  Participation in a research protocol for investigation of a pharmaceutical agent or
             innovative invasive procedure (including intra-arterial t-PA) within the past 30 days

          -  Previously in the BRAIN-Study or treated with repinotan

          -  Life expectancy of less than 6 months due to comorbid conditions

          -  Any other known clinically significant medical disorder (e.g., cardiovascular,
             gastrointestinal, hepatic, renal, endocrine, major uncompensated metabolic
             disturbances, respiratory, immunological, hematological or bleeding disorder, cancer,
             AIDS)
      
