TITLE:
Treatment of Pediatric Hypertension With Altace Trial

CONDITION:
Hypertension

INTERVENTION:
ramipril

SUMMARY:

      Ramipril is an ACE inhibitor that has been marketed in the US for the treatment of
      hypertension since 1991. It has been shown to be effective in reducing both systolic and
      diastolic blood pressure in adults when used once daily. ACE inhibitors are frequently used
      to treat hypertension in children, however ramipril has not been extensively tested in
      children, and information regarding the efficacy and safety would therefore be of benefit to
      children. This study is designed to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of ramipril in the
      treatment of hypertension in children ages 6 through 16 years.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      In adults, common side effects include persistent dry mouth, dizziness, fatigue, and
      headache. Rare cases of angioedema have been reported. When used in pregnancy during the
      second and third trimesters, ACE inhibitors can cause injury and even death to the
      developing fetus. When pregnancy is detected, ramipril should be discontinued as soon as
      possible. Ramipril is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to the product or
      have a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an ACE inhibitor.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 6 Years to 16 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion criteria:

          -  Males or females age 6 to 16 years. All female subjects  8 years of age must have a
             negative urine pregnancy test and must use an acceptable method of contraception,
             including abstinence, a barrier method (diaphragm or condom), Depo-Provera, or an
             oral contraceptive, for the duration of the study.

          -  Weight  20 kg.

          -  Parents/guardians must be able to demonstrate their ability to use the home blood
             pressure device to monitor blood pressure.

          -  Sitting systolic blood pressure or sitting diastolic blood pressure  the 95th
             percentile for age, gender and height; or diabetes mellitus or chronic renal
             insufficiency (as evidenced by GFR 40-70 mL/min/1.73 m2) and a sitting systolic blood
             pressure or sitting diastolic blood pressure  the 90th percentile for age, gender,
             and height.

        Exclusion criteria:

          -  Severe hypertension documented by (1) Sitting systolic blood pressure or sitting
             diastolic blood pressure more than 20 mmHg above the 95th percentile for age, gender,
             and height without antihypertensive therapy, (2) Sitting systolic blood pressure or
             sitting diastolic blood pressure more than 12 mmHg above the 95th percentile for age,
             gender, and height while receiving active therapy, or (3) hypertensive encephalopathy
             within the previous 5 months.

          -  Currently receiving more than one antihypertensive medication including: ACE
             inhibitors, angiotensin receptor inhibitors, beta blockers, calcium channel blockers,
             diuretics.

          -  Receiving lithium, potassium supplements, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, or major
             tranquilizers (Note: Stimulant medications for behavioral disorders, corticosteroids,
             and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents for chronic pain management are permitted
             during the trial provided the subject's dosage is anticipated to remain unchanged
             throughout the duration of the study.)

          -  A history of cardiomyopathy, clinically significant structural heart disease or
             atrioventricular conduction disturbance, sick sinus syndrome, atrial flutter, atrial
             fibrillation, clinically significant bradycardia or an accessory bypass tract, or
             clinical symptoms of congestive heart failure.
      
