TITLE:
Light-Emitting Diode Therapy in Preventing Mucositis in Children Receiving Chemotherapy With or Without Radiation Therapy Before Bone Marrow Transplantation

CONDITION:
Chronic Myeloproliferative Disorders

INTERVENTION:
management of therapy complications

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Light-emitting diode (LED) therapy may be able to prevent mucositis of the mouth.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase II trial to determine the effectiveness of LED therapy in
      preventing mucositis of the mouth in children who are receiving chemotherapy with or without
      radiation therapy before donor bone marrow transplantation.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the incidence and severity of oral mucositis in children undergoing
           NASA-developed light-emitting diode (LED) therapy during a pre-transplantation
           myeloablative conditioning regimen (chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy) and
           continuing through the post-bone marrow transplantation (BMT) phase versus LED therapy
           during the post-BMT phase only.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to participating center and cheek being treated (right vs left). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 schedules of light-emitting diode (LED) therapy.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo LED therapy for 71 seconds once daily beginning on day 1 of the
           myeloablative conditioning regimen comprising chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy
           and continuing for 14 days after bone marrow transplantation (BMT).

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo LED therapy as in arm I beginning on the day of BMT (day 0)
           and continuing for 14 days after BMT.

      Photographs are taken of the right and left buccal mucosa at baseline and then every 3 days
      beginning on day 1 of LED therapy.

      Pain and xerostomia are assessed using the Wong-Baker "smiley-face" pain scale at baseline
      and then periodically for 14 days after BMT.

      Patients are followed monthly for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 80 patients (40 per arm) will be accrued for this study within
      2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 2 Years to 18 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Patients undergoing a myeloablative conditioning regimen comprising chemotherapy with
             or without radiotherapy prior to a first allogeneic bone marrow transplantation

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  2 to 18

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Pulmonary:

          -  No pulmonary dysfunction that would increase significantly the risk of requiring
             intubation during the first 21 days after transplantation

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No photophobia

          -  Must have emotional, cognitive, and mental maturity sufficient to tolerate
             light-emitting diode therapy application and oral examination without combativeness

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Chemotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No concurrent medication that may cause epidermal or ocular photosensitivity
      
