TITLE:
Gemzar (Gemcitabine) and Alimta (Pemetrexed) in the Treatment of Patients With Recurrent Platinum-Sensitive and Platinum-Resistant Ovarian or Peritoneal Cancer

CONDITION:
Ovarian Cancer

INTERVENTION:
Gemzar and Alimta

SUMMARY:

      This study hopes to evaluate whether the combination of Gemzar plus Alimta will have any
      beneficial effects for patients with recurrent platinum-sensitive or platinum-resistant
      ovarian or peritoneal cancer. Treatments are weekly for two weeks, with the 3rd week off and
      will be repeated every 21 days. Side effects and the overall safety of the treatment will
      also be monitored and evaluated. In addition, a Quality of Life questionnaire is part of
      this study to help measure patient perceived benefits or drawbacks to this treatment
      regimen.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients must have disease that can be measured.

          -  Patients must meet criteria for either platinum-resistant or platinum-sensitive
             ovarian or peritoneal cancer.

          -  Patients may only have had one prior platinum-based chemotherapy regimen.

          -  Patients must be willing and able to stop all aspirin and NSAID medications
             immediately before and for a time after each treatment cycle (approx. 5-8 days)

          -  Patients must have normal kidney function.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients may not have a Low Malignant Potential or Borderline Ovarian Tumor.

          -  Patients may not have received pelvic or abdominal radiotherapy.

          -  Patients must not have evidence of or received treatment for another cancer within
             the last 5 years.

          -  Patients must not have been diagnosed with a heart attack in the last 6 months.

          -  Patients who are unwilling or unable to take folic acid tablets, vitamin B12
             injections or dexamethasone tablets.
      
