TITLE:
Arsenic Trioxide and Radiation Therapy in Treating Young Patients With Newly Diagnosed Gliomas

CONDITION:
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors

INTERVENTION:
arsenic trioxide

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as arsenic trioxide, work in different ways to
      stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Radiation therapy uses
      high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells and may be an effective treatment for patients with
      glioma. Drugs such as arsenic trioxide may also make the tumor cells more sensitive to
      radiation therapy. Combining arsenic trioxide with radiation therapy may kill more tumor
      cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combining arsenic trioxide with
      radiation therapy in treating patients who have newly diagnosed gliomas.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of arsenic trioxide when administered with
           radiotherapy in pediatric patients with newly diagnosed anaplastic astrocytoma,
           glioblastoma multiforme, gliosarcoma, or intrinsic pontine glioma.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of arsenic trioxide (ATO).

      Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for approximately 6 weeks. Patients
      concurrently receive ATO IV over 1 hour, 1-5 times weekly, for approximately 6 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of ATO until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 2 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-36 patients will be accrued for this study within 3-36
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 3 Years to 21 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of 1 of the following:

               -  Clinical and neuroradiographic findings consistent with intrinsic pontine glioma

               -  Histologically confirmed anaplastic astrocytoma, glioblastoma multiforme, or
                  gliosarcoma

                    -  Multifocal high-grade gliomas allowed

          -  No exophytic tumors

          -  No focal lesions

          -  No underlying diagnosis of neurofibromatosis

          -  No tumors originating in anatomic structures adjacent to the cerebellar peduncle or
             cervical medullary junction

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  3 to 21

        Performance status

          -  Karnofsky 60-100% OR

          -  Lansky 60-100%

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Absolute neutrophil count > 1,500/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin > 10 g/dL

          -  Platelet count > 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin < 2.0 mg/dL

          -  Alkaline phosphatase < 2.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  Transaminases < 2.5 times ULN

        Renal

          -  Creatinine < 2.0 times ULN

        Cardiovascular

          -  No second-degree heart block

          -  No absolute QTc interval > 500 msec with normal potassium and magnesium levels

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  No other malignancy within the past 5 years except curatively treated basal cell or
             squamous cell skin cancer or carcinoma in situ

          -  No other serious medical illness

          -  Able to undergo MRI

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  More than 28 days since prior biologic therapy

          -  No concurrent prophylactic growth factors (e.g., filgrastim [G-CSF] or sargramostim
             [GM-CSF])

        Chemotherapy

          -  No prior arsenic trioxide

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Surgery

          -  Prior surgery for the brain tumor allowed

        Other

          -  No other prior therapy for the brain tumor

          -  More than 28 days since prior investigational drugs or devices

          -  No concurrent amphotericin B
      
