TITLE:
Repeat-Dose of Forodesine Hydrochloride (BCX-1777) Infusion in Patients With Advanced T-Cell Leukemia

CONDITION:
Leukemia, T-Cell

INTERVENTION:
forodesine hydrochloride (BCX-1777)

SUMMARY:

      BCX-1777 may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their
      growth. The Phase II trial is designed to study the effectiveness of BCX-1777 in treating
      patients who have recurrent or refractory advanced T-cell leukemia.

      Patients will receive an infusion of BCX-1777 on days 1-5. Treatment may be repeated every
      week for up to six courses. Patients are not required to be hospitalized for the
      administration of BCX-1777. Some patients may continue to receive an infusion of BCX-1777
      twice a week for 6 weeks.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      BCX-1777 may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their
      growth. The Phase II trial is designed to study the effectiveness of BCX-1777 in treating
      patients who have recurrent or refractory advanced T-cell leukemia.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Documented T-cell leukemia (precursor T-lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphomia or T-PLL)

          -  Failure to have responded to one or more standard regimens for their disease.

          -  Performance status of <=2 by Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) criteria

          -  All ages are eligible

          -  Life expectancy of at least 3 months

          -  Adequate liver function (aspartate transaminase [AST] and/or alanine transaminase
             [ALT] not >3 times upper limits or normal [ULN])

          -  Adequate kidney function (calculated creatinine clearance >50 mL/min)

          -  Negative urine pregnancy test within 2 to 7 days prior to the start of study
             treamtment in females of childbearing potential

          -  Females of childbearing potential and males must be willing and able to use an
             adequate method of contraception to avoid pregnancy for the duration of the study

          -  Signed informed consent/assent form (ICF) prior to start of any study specific
             procedures

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with known HIV infection or human T-cell leukemia virus type (HTLV-1)

          -  Patients with known Hepatitis B and/or Hepatitis C active infection

          -  Patients with active CMV infection

          -  Tumor-related central nervous system (CNS) leukemia requiring active treatment

          -  Active serious infection not controlled by oral or IV antibiotics

          -  Treatment with any investigational anti-leukemic agent or chemotherapy agent within 7
             days prior to study entry, unless full recovery from side effects has occurred.

          -  Rapidly progressive disease with compromised organ function judged to be
             life-threatening by the investigator

          -  Concurrent treatment with other anticancer agents (corticosteroid use will not be
             excluded, but patient must remain on the stable dose)

          -  Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) diagnosis (including Sezary Syndrome)

          -  Pregnant and/or lactating women
      
