TITLE:
Androgen Effects in HIV-infected Women

CONDITION:
HIV Infection

INTERVENTION:
1 Transdermal Testosterone (Patch)

SUMMARY:

      Androgen deficiency in HIV-infected women is associated with sarcopenia and may cause
      critical reductions in physical functioning and reduced bone density. The effects of
      long-term androgen therapy on lean body mass, bone density and other clinical endpoints
      including quality of life, functional status and neurocognitive function in HIV-infected
      women are not known.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      We will perform an 18-month randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study among
      relatively androgen deficient women with HIV, to determine the effects of testosterone
      administration on lean body mass. The administered dose will be 300 micrograms twice a week
      vs. identical placebo in the form of a transdermal preparation. Secondary endpoints include
      effects on bone density, quality of life, neurocognitive function and menstrual function.
      Open label administration at 300 micrograms twice a week will be initiated for 12 months in
      all subjects following the randomized portion of the study. Assuming a 15% dropout rate and
      25 randomized patients, the probability is 80 percent that the study will detect a treatment
      difference at a two sided 5.000 percent significance level, if the true difference between
      the treatments is 2.7 kg. This is based on the assumption that the standard deviation of the
      response variable, lean body mass by DEXA, is 2.3 kg, as was shown by Choi et al1 over 12
      weeks in HIV-infected women at the same dose of 300 ug 2x/week.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Female 18 - 55

          -  BMI less than or equal to 26

          -  HIV-infected

          -  Androgen deficient, with free testosterone < 3 pg/mL

          -  Stable antiretroviral regimen for 3 months prior to study

          -  Tubal ligation, hysterectomy, or verbalized understanding of appropriate barrier
             contraception methods. Subjects will be counseled in appropriate barrier
             contraception methods and the counseling will be documented.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Use of anabolic agent, including testosterone, GH or other preparations within 3
             months of the study.

          -  Use of megestrol acetate within 3 months of the study

          -  Use of estrogen or any preparation known to affect bone density or bone turnover.This
             includes oral contraceptives, depo provera or combined progesterone-estrogen
             injections, and transdermal contraceptive patches.

          -  Pregnant or breast-feeding

          -  Hgb < 9.0 mg/dL

          -  Current participation in another research study conducted by this investigator or
             past participation in the DHEA study funded by the same grant as this protocol.

          -  Creatinine > 1.5 mg/dL
      
