TITLE:
Brief Strategic Family Therapy for Adolescent Drug Abusers

CONDITION:
Substance Abuse

INTERVENTION:
Brief Strategic Family Therapy (BSFT)

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to compare Brief Strategic Family Therapy (BSFT) for Adolescent
      Drug Abusers to treatment as usual (TAU).

      An additional follow up assessment, funded by an American Recovery & Reinvestment Act (ARRA)
      grant, was completed 5 years post randomization in order to examine the long term effects of
      outpatient treatments for illicit drug using adolescents.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Adolescent drug abuse continues to be one of the most pressing public health issues in the
      United Statesour nation's teenagers continue to use illicit drugs at a worrisome rate.
      Broad reviews of the treatment outcome literature indicate that family interventions in
      general, and Brief Strategic Family Therapy (BSFT) in particular, are effective with drug
      using youth. This study is designed to compare BSFT to treatment as usual (TAU). The
      researchers believe that BSFT will be much more effective than TAU in reducing adolescent
      drug use. They will also examine which of these treatment approaches does a better job of
      engaging adolescents and family members in treatment, decreasing problem behaviors,
      decreasing sexually risky behaviors, increasing pro-social activities (e.g., school, work),
      and improving the functioning of the family.

      With the addition of the extended follow up, we have the opportunity to examine the
      sustainability of study outcomes into early adulthood, filling a gap in the treatment
      research literature about the long-term effects of adolescent substance abuse treatment. The
      follow up study examined the long term effectiveness of BSFT compared to TAU in the rates of
      substance use, number of arrests and externalizing behaviors, in youth who received study
      treatments at the time when they were adolescents.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 12 Years to 17 Years
Criteria:

        Main Study:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  adolescents ages 12 to 17

          -  used any illicit drugs (other than alcohol and tobacco) in the 30-day period

          -  live with or intend to live with a formal or informal family

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  suicidal or homicidal ideation.

        Follow Up Study:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  youth must have signed consent during the main study to be approached for future
             research

          -  currently 18 years old or older
      
