TITLE:
Treating Multiple Sclerosis With Sirolimus, an Immune System Suppressor

CONDITION:
Multiple Sclerosis (MS) - Relapsing-remitting

INTERVENTION:
sirolimus

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and tolerability of the drug sirolimus
      in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) who have failed other treatments.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      MS is a chronic autoimmune disease of the central nervous system in which myelin, the
      protein sheath that protects nerve cells, is degraded by T cells and macrophages, leading to
      an eventual loss of neurologic function. MS can be classified as either relapsing-remitting,
      in which patients experience worsening in symptoms followed by partial or complete recovery
      of function; or progressive, in which patients have a gradual increase in symptoms, with or
      without relapses. Standard treatments used to treat relapsing-remitting MS are only modestly
      effective and may be associated with significant toxicity. There is a need to develop
      therapies with lower toxicities that can be administered early during the course of disease
      and have the potential to stop disease progression altogether. Sirolimus has been
      demonstrated to provide potent immunosuppression in recent clinical trials involving kidney
      transplantation, and may help people with autoimmune diseases like MS. This study will
      determine the benefit of sirolimus in MS patients.

      Blood and urine collection will occur at screening. Participants will take daily doses of
      sirolimus for 6 months. There will be nine study visits; they will occur at Days 14, 28, 42,
      56, 90, 120, 150, 180, and 225. Medication adverse events, concomitant medications, and
      vital signs will be recorded at Visits 1 through 8. At all visits, patient compliance to the
      sirolimus regimen will be measured, and blood and urine collection will occur. Physical and
      neurological exams, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain scans, MS status tests, and a
      chest x-ray will be conducted at selected times throughout the study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 58 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Relapsing-remitting MS

          -  Evidence of demyelination on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan

          -  Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score between 0 and 6

          -  Nonresponsive to beta-interferon or Glatiramer acetate therapy

          -  Discontinuation of beta-interferon or Glatiramer acetate therapy within 1 month prior
             to study entry

          -  Willing to use acceptable methods of contraception

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Primary progressive MS

          -  Prior treatment with immunosuppressants

          -  Steroid therapy within 1 month prior to study entry

          -  Evidence of active infection or cancer

          -  Heart or hematologic dysfunction

          -  High levels of lipids in the blood

          -  Use of lipid-lowering agents

          -  History of cirrhosis or liver disease requiring treatment

          -  History of hepatitis B or C

          -  Active cytomegalovirus infection

          -  Kidney disease requiring treatment

          -  Active lung disease

          -  Diabetes

          -  Hyperthyroidism

          -  HIV infection

          -  Tuberculosis

          -  History of alcohol or drug abuse within 6 months prior to study entry

          -  Claustrophobia or inability to undergo MRI

          -  Pregnancy or breast-feeding
      
