TITLE:
Monoclonal Antibody 3F8 and Sargramostim in Treating Patients With Neuroblastoma

CONDITION:
Neuroblastoma

INTERVENTION:
anti-GD2 murine IgG3 monoclonal antibody 3F8

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as monoclonal antibody 3F8, can locate tumor cells
      and either kill them or deliver tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal
      cells. Colony-stimulating factors, such as sargramostim, may increase the number of immune
      cells found in bone marrow or peripheral blood. Combining monoclonal antibody 3F8 with
      sargramostim may cause a stronger immune response and kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining monoclonal antibody 3F8 with
      sargramostim in treating patients who have neuroblastoma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the efficacy of sargramostim (GM-CSF) in enhancing monoclonal antibody
           3F8-mediated ablation in patients with high-risk neuroblastoma.

        -  Determine the prognostic impact of minimal residual bone marrow disease on relapse-free
           survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Compare the effects of short-term (2-hour intravenous) vs prolonged (subcutaneous
           release) daily GM-CSF on granulocyte activation, in order to establish the optimal
           route for tumor-cell kill in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label study. Patients are stratified according to evaluable disease
      (yes [primary refractory bone marrow disease] vs no [no evidence of disease]).

      Patients receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) subcutaneously on days -5 to 4 and monoclonal
      antibody 3F8 IV over 0.5-1.5 hours on days 0-4. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4
      courses and then every 8 weeks for up to a total of 24 months in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Beginning after 2 courses of GM-CSF and monoclonal antibody 3F8, patients also receive oral
      isotretinoin twice daily on days 1-14 (when no monoclonal antibody 3F8 is administered).
      Treatment with isotretinoin repeats approximately every 28 days for 6 courses.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 340 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of neuroblastoma by histopathology OR bone marrow metastases and high urine
             catecholamine levels

          -  Disease must meet risk-related treatment guidelines and any of the following
             International Neuroblastoma Staging System stages:

               -  Stage 4 with (any age) OR without (> 18 months of age of age) MYCN amplification

               -  MYCN-amplified other than stage 1

          -  No evidence of disease (i.e., in complete response/remission or very good partial
             response/remission) OR disease resistant to standard therapy (i.e., incomplete
             response in bone marrow)

          -  No progressive disease or MIBG-avid soft tissue tumor

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  No existing renal, cardiac, hepatic, neurologic, pulmonary, or gastrointestinal
             toxicity  grade 3

          -  No human anti-mouse antibody (HAMA) titer greater than 1,000 Elisa units/mL

          -  No history of allergy to mouse proteins

          -  No active life-threatening infection

          -  Not pregnant

          -  Negative pregnancy test

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

          -  Not specified
      
