TITLE:
Liposomal Doxorubicin and Thermal Therapy in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as liposomal doxorubicin, use different ways to
      stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Microwave thermotherapy kills
      tumor cells by heating them to several degrees above body temperature. Combining liposomal
      doxorubicin with microwave thermotherapy may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of liposomal
      doxorubicin when given together with microwave thermotherapy in treating patients with
      prostate cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of doxorubicin HCl liposome released through
           thermal microwave therapy in patients with adenocarcinoma of the prostate.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics and biodistribution profile of this drug in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the safety profile and dose-limiting toxicity of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the clinical response in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, dose-escalation, multicenter study.

      Patients receive doxorubicin HCl liposome IV over 30 minutes. Patients then undergo a
      60-minute course of prostate thermotherapy. Treatment may repeat every 28-42 days for up to
      6 courses, at the discretion of the physician.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of doxorubicin HCl liposome until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at
      which at least 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed at 8, 15, 30, and 90 days.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 50 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 40 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the prostate

          -  Rising prostate-specific antigen AND radiographic evidence of extraprostatic prostate
             cancer by bone scan, CT scan, prostascint scan, or MRI

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  40 and over

        Performance status

          -  Karnofsky 80-100%

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  WBC greater than 4,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count greater than 100,000/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin greater than 10.0 g/dL

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin normal

          -  AST normal

          -  Alkaline phosphatase normal

          -  No acute or chronic liver disease

        Renal

          -  Creatinine less than 1.5 times upper limit of normal

        Cardiovascular

          -  Ejection fraction at least 50% by MUGA

          -  EKG normal

          -  No myocardial infarction or cerebral vascular accident within the past 6 months

          -  No life threatening cardiac arrhythmias

          -  No congestive heart failure

          -  No cardiac pacemaker

          -  No peripheral arterial disease with intermittent claudication or Leriches syndrome
             (i.e., claudication of the buttocks or perineum)

        Other

          -  Fertile patients must use effective barrier contraception during and for 3 months
             after study participation

          -  No sperm donation during and for 3 months after study participation

          -  Not febrile

          -  No interest in future fertility or fathering children

          -  No significantly decreased pain response

          -  No severe urethral stricture

          -  No protruding median lobe resulting in a "ball-valve" type of obstruction at the
             bladder neck

          -  No major psychiatric illness that would prevent informed consent

          -  No major psychiatric illness that required inpatient treatment within the past 3
             months

          -  No psychological, family, sociological, or geographic condition that would preclude
             study compliance

          -  No allergy to eggs or egg products

          -  No urinary or prostatic infection

          -  No full urinary retention

          -  No penile or urinary sphincter implant

          -  No metallic implants in the pelvic or femoral area

          -  No other serious medical illness that would preclude study participation

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  No concurrent live vaccines

        Chemotherapy

          -  No prior anthracycline

          -  No concurrent streptozocin

        Endocrine therapy

          -  No concurrent hormonal therapy (except luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone analog)

          -  No concurrent glucocorticoids administered at more than physiologic replacement doses
             (other than as an antiemetic)

        Radiotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Surgery

          -  More than 3 months since prior major surgery

        Other

          -  No prior therapy that resulted in permanent reduction of pain response (e.g., prior
             surgery, regional or local anesthetic)

          -  No concurrent PC-SPES

          -  No concurrent cyclosporine, phenobarbital, or phenytoin
      
