TITLE:
Daily Nevirapine to Prevent Mother to Infant Transmission of HIV

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Nevirapine and mulitvitamins

SUMMARY:

      Infants who are breast-fed by HIV infected mothers have an increased risk of becoming
      infected with HIV. Standard therapy for the prevention of HIV infections in infants included
      zidovudine (ZDV) prior to the onset of labor, a single dose of nevirapine (NVP) for women
      during labor, and a single dose of NVP for newborns given 72 hours after birth. This study
      will determine if giving low dose daily NVP to breastfed infants of HIV infected mothers, in
      addition to standard therapy, will be more effective than standard therapy alone at
      preventing HIV infections in these infants.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This study will evaluate the safety and effectiveness of adding daily infant NVP to standard
      prevention measures to decrease vertical transmission of HIV.

      According to current statistics from the study site, approximately 70% of the pregnant HIV
      infected women in this study will have begun antenatal ZDV prior to the initiation of NVP at
      labor. The remaining 30% of the HIV infected women enrolled in this trial will have been
      previously undiagnosed. These women will be diagnosed with HIV infection either at the time
      they present to the delivery room in stage 1 of labor or immediately postpartum if they
      present for delivery late in labor and cannot provide informed consent for HIV screening
      prior to delivery.

      All infants will receive the standard does of NVP at 72 hours postpartum. Infants will then
      be randomized to receive either daily NVP and a daily multivitamin (MVI) or a daily MVI
      alone. Infants will take NVP/MVI or MVI alone during Weeks 2 to 6 postpartum. The primary
      outcome measure is infant HIV infection rates at 6 months.

      Two additional related cohorts of women will be followed for comparison: 1) an equal number
      of HIV uninfected women and their children will be enrolled for comparison of postpartum
      morbidity and mortality; and 2) consenting HIV infected women and their children who choose
      not to enroll in the clinical trial or are ineligible because they are not breastfeeding
      will be enrolled in an ancillary cohort.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria for Pregnant or Postpartum Mothers

          -  HIV infected

          -  Planning to breastfeed

          -  Able to tolerate oral drugs and available for 12 months of postpartum follow-up

        Exclusion Criteria

          -  Significant physical or emotional distress

          -  Infant with serious or life threatening disease or severe fetal abnormality

          -  Obstetrical complications affecting maternal health

          -  Prior antiretroviral drugs (except antenatal ZDV or intrapartum (NVP)
      
