TITLE:
Cardiovascular Vulnerability to Particulate Exposure

CONDITION:
Heart Disease

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This project is part of a program project directed toward assessing cardiac effects of
      particulate and other ambient air pollutants. In this project active elderly adults living
      in the communities of Boston and Steubenville have attended 12 weekly sessions including
      approximately 40 minutes of Holter monitoring, blood pressure, and oximetry evaluation
      before, during, and after outdoor exercise. To investigate the relation of air pollution to
      cardiac and pulmonary rehabilitation, a second portion of this study involves abstraction of
      blood pressure and symptom data and downloading of available repeated measures telemetry
      data in two populations. These populations include: 1) 200 outpatients attending 8 to 36
      repeated weekly exercise training sessions in a major hospital cardiac rehabilitation unit.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Approximately 60 subjects have participated fully in Boston and Steubenville in the repeated
      40 minute measurement of continuous EKG (Holter), blood pressure, and oximetry. In
      Steubenville we have also measured exhaled nitrogen oxide, an index of pulmonary
      inflammation. The exposure monitoring has included outdoor particle mass of PM2.5, outdoor
      gaseous pollutants, and indoor home and personal monitoring to evaluate the indoor
      contribution of pollution to health effects.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 50 Years to 90 Years
Criteria:

        Participants are 50 to 90 years of age, but almost all are 60 and older. They have been
        enrolled as volunteers from communities in Mission Park, Boston, and Steubenville.
        Inclusion criteria includes the ability to walk on level ground. Exclusion criteria
        includes unstable anginal, and baseline EKG patterns such as left bundle branch block that
        would make difficult the detection of repolarization abnormalities. Participants live at
        or near the study center which was located in an office or apartment in the apartment
        building of the majority of the participants.
      
