TITLE:
A Comparison of BMS-232632 With Efavirenz, Each in Combination With Zidovudine-Lamivudine

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Atazanavir

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of treatment with BMS-232632 to
      that of efavirenz (EFV) when both are used with zidovudine (ZDV) and lamivudine (3TC).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This is a multinational, 2-arm study. Patients in 1 arm receive BMS-232632 plus EFV placebo
      capsules. Patients in the other arm receive EFV plus BMS-232632 placebo. Both arms also
      receive a fixed dose of ZDV-3TC.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients may be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Have a viral load of 2,000 or more copies/ml and a CD4 cell count of 100 or more
             cells/mm3 (or 75 or more cells/mm3 with no prior history of AIDS-defining diagnosis)
             within 2 weeks before randomization.

          -  Are at least 16 years old.

          -  Have signed consent of parent or guardian if under 18 years of age.

          -  Are willing to use effective barrier methods of birth control.

          -  Are available for follow-up for at least 52 weeks.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Patients will not be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Have had anti-HIV treatment within 30 days before screening.

          -  Have a recently diagnosed HIV-related infection.

          -  Have any medical condition requiring treatment at enrollment.

          -  Have recently become HIV infected.

          -  Have acute hepatitis within 30 days of study entry. Certain patients with chronic
             hepatitis will be eligible.

          -  Expect to need or have taken drugs with myelosuppressive, neurotoxic, pancreatotoxic,
             hepatotoxic, or cytotoxic potential within 3 months before study. Expect to need
             methadone, ribavirin/interferons, neurotoxic drugs or drugs that affect CYP3A4.

          -  Abuse alcohol or drugs.

          -  Have severe diarrhea within 30 days before study entry.

          -  Are pregnant or breast-feeding.

          -  Have a history of hemophilia.

          -  Have a history of bilateral peripheral neuropathy.

          -  Cannot take medicines by mouth.

          -  Have any other conditions that the doctor thinks would interfere with the study.
      
