TITLE:
Radiation Therapy and Tamoxifen in Treating Children With Newly Diagnosed Brain Stem Glioma

CONDITION:
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors

INTERVENTION:
tamoxifen citrate

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Tamoxifen may
      kill tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for cell growth. Combining radiation
      therapy with tamoxifen may be effective in treating newly diagnosed brain stem glioma.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining radiation therapy and
      tamoxifen in treating children who have newly diagnosed brain stem glioma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine whether high-dose tamoxifen with radiotherapy increases the median survival
           and overall survival of children with newly diagnosed brain stem gliomas.

        -  Determine the time to neurologic or radiographic progression in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the acute and chronic toxicity of high-dose tamoxifen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week for 6 weeks. Within 2 weeks after the
      initiation of radiotherapy, patients receive oral high-dose tamoxifen once daily. Tamoxifen
      continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 60 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 19 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Newly diagnosed tumor of the brain stem (diffuse intrinsic lesion centered on the
             pons)

               -  Radiological and clinical diagnostic criteria allowed (biopsy not required)

               -  The following astrocytic tumors are allowed if histologically confirmed:

                    -  Diffuse astrocytoma (all subtypes)

                    -  Anaplastic astrocytoma

                    -  Glioblastoma

                    -  Pilocytic astrocytoma (grade I)

          -  Less than 6 months since diagnosis

          -  At least 1 of the following signs of brain stem tumor:

               -  Cranial nerve deficit

               -  Long tract signs

               -  Ataxia

          -  No focal lesions of the brain stem (either clearly marginated or cystic),
             cervicomedullary tumors, tumors predominately exophytic, or pontine tumors diagnosed
             as pilocytic on biopsy

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  Under 20

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  No frequent vomiting or other medical condition that would preclude oral medication
             intake

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior chemotherapy for brain stem glioma

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Concurrent steroids allowed

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No prior radiotherapy for brain stem glioma

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  Concurrent anticonvulsants allowed
      
