TITLE:
Vitamin A Therapy for Tuberculosis

CONDITION:
Pulmonary Tuberculosis

INTERVENTION:
multivitamin

SUMMARY:

      The study will determine whether a daily vitamin and mineral supplement (a multivitamin
      including Vitamin A) will improve health when added to standard chemotherapy for
      tuberculosis. This study will compare the effectiveness of the multivitamin in HIV infected
      and HIV uninfected patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      By the year 2000, 13.8 % of individuals with HIV will be co-infected with tuberculosis (TB).
      Despite effective TB chemotherapy, mortality rates remain extremely high, and no simple,
      inexpensive intervention is available. Prior to the discovery of antibiotic treatment,
      cod-liver oil, a potent source of Vitamin A, was the standard treatment for TB. Vitamin A is
      essential for normal immune function, and Vitamin A supplementation is used in many
      countries to reduce mortality in children. Vitamin A deficiency in HIV infected people has
      been associated with increased mortality in the United States, Haiti, Malawi, and Uganda.
      This study will determine whether daily Vitamin A supplementation, given concurrently with
      TB chemotherapy, will reduce mortality in adults with HIV and TB.

      All study participants will receive standard TB chemotherapy (isoniazid, rifampicin,
      streptomycin, pyrazinamide) for the first 2 months, followed by isoniazid and ethambutol for
      the following 6 months. Participants will be randomized to receive either a daily vitamin
      and mineral supplement or placebo. Participants will be followed for 24 months after study
      enrollment.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Sputum-confirmed pulmonary tuberculosis

          -  Resident of Zomba or Blantyre Districts, Malawi

          -  Willing to take tuberculosis chemotherapy as recommended by the National Tuberculosis
             Control Programme

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Prior treatment for tuberculosis
      
