TITLE:
Study of Intralesional Injection of M4N in Patients With Refractory Malignant Tumors of the Head and Neck

CONDITION:
Head and Neck Neoplasms

INTERVENTION:
M4N

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study will be to determine the safety and tolerability of intratumoral
      M4N. Patients suffering from cancer of the head and neck that is recurrent after primary
      treatment with surgery, radiation therapy, and/or chemotherapy may be eligible. The design
      is a Phase 1 dose escalation study of M4N administered intratumorally once weekly, initially
      for three weeks. Dose will be escalated on the starting schedule to a target of 20 mg/cm3
      tumor volume and then, new patient cohorts will have their schedule extended to weekly M4N
      for 4 weeks. Dose escalation will continue, assuming tolerability, so that cohorts will be
      treated for 6 weeks, and finally, 8 weeks.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Study data collected will include pre-study demographics and measurements, treatment
      compliance, efficacy determined by tumor measurements, M4N levels in blood for
      pharmacokinetics, serum and biochemical determinations, hematology determinations, and
      patient vital signs.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male and female patients  18 years of age.

          -  Patients with documented histologic evidence of head and neck cancer with clinically
             measurable disease. Head and neck cancer could have been recurrent after primary
             treatment with surgery, radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy.

          -  Measurable tumor by direct inspection, photography, or by imaging (CT scan or MRI).

          -  Life expectancy of at least 3 months in the Investigators' opinion.

          -  Negative pregnancy test if in women of childbearing potential within 1 week of
             starting therapy.

          -  Patients had provided written informed consent to participate in study.

          -  ECOG Performance Status of 0, 1, or 2.

          -  Absolute neutrophil  1500/uL, hemoglobin  8 gm%, platelets  50,000/uL,

          -  ALT/AST  3 x ULN (upper limit of the normal range), bilirubin  1.5 x ULN and
             creatinine  1.5 x ULN, PT and PTT within normal limits.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Women who were pregnant or nursing.

          -  Women of child bearing potential who were unwilling to use an adequate method of
             contraception during the course of the study.

          -  Treatment with prior investigational agent within 30 days of entering the study.

          -  Patients who are unable to comply with the study requirements.

          -  Patients with known sensitivity to any of the study medication components.

          -  Patients not consenting to photography.

          -  Patients with tumors that have enveloped the carotid artery or whose anatomy had been
             distorted such that in the Investigator's opinion present high-risk of perforation or
             compromise during injection.

          -  Prior chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or surgery for the primary carcinoma within 30
             days of dosing and/or had not recovered from prior therapy toxicities.
      
