TITLE:
Economic Impact of Guidelines for Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease

CONDITION:
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease

INTERVENTION:
Disease management of gastroesophageal reflux disease

SUMMARY:

      This is a series of two prospective studies based on the Department of Veterans Affairs drug
      treatment guideline for the pharmacologic management of gastroesophageal reflux disease. Our
      hypothesis is that novel strategies for medical management of gastroesophageal reflux
      disease (GERD) can decrease resource utilization without adversely affecting patient quality
      of life. The strategies tested in this project included 1) step-down management, whereby
      patients rendered asymptomatic on proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are treated with less
      expensive medication, and 2) intermittent therapy, defined as administration of medication
      only for recurrence of GERD symptoms. We chose to examine an intermittent strategy of PPI
      administration since in addition to the VA guideline requiring step-down therapy,
      over-the-counter PPIs administered by intermittent therapy became available for use by
      patients during the study period.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Background:

      This is a series of two prospective studies based on the Department of Veterans Affairs drug
      treatment guideline for the pharmacologic management of gastroesophageal reflux disease. Our
      hypothesis is that novel strategies for medical management of gastroesophageal reflux
      disease (GERD) can decrease resource utilization without adversely affecting patient quality
      of life. The strategies tested in this project included 1) step-down management, whereby
      patients rendered asymptomatic on proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are treated with less
      expensive medication, and 2) intermittent therapy, defined as administration of medication
      only for recurrence of GERD symptoms. We chose to examine an intermittent strategy of PPI
      administration since in addition to the VA guideline requiring step-down therapy,
      over-the-counter PPIs administered by intermittent therapy became available for use by
      patients during the study period.

      Objectives:

      The objectives of this project are to determine the efficacy of step-down therapy and
      intermittent therapy in patients with GERD, and the impact of these strategies on direct
      healthcare costs and health-related quality of life (HRQOL). Additionally, we will examine
      patient factors predictive of non-response to these management strategies that may be
      alternatives to traditional continuous PPI administration.

      Methods:

      Two separate studies were conducted in our population of patients with GERD symptoms
      (heartburn or acid regurgitation) rendered asymptomatic on PPIs. Both studies randomized
      subjects to an intervention strategy (Step-down or Intermittent therapy) or to a control
      group in which PPIs were continued on a daily basis.

      Step-down therapy: Step-down subjects discontinued PPIs and were prescribed
      histamine2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs) for 2 weeks, and if still asymptomatic, H2RAs were
      discontinued. If symptoms recurred, H2RAs were reinitiated, and if still symptomatic,
      subjects were prescribed PPIs at the dose that initially alleviated their symptoms.
      Intermittent therapy: Intermittent therapy subjects discontinued daily use of PPIs and were
      prescribed short courses of PPI (daily for 8 weeks) for recurrence of GERD symptoms. The
      primary efficacy measure was the proportion of subjects remaining free of GERD symptoms
      while on their prescribed therapy (step-down group: no symptoms on H2RAs or no GERD
      medication; intermittent therapy group: no PPIs for 2 weeks after discontinuation, and < 3
      symptom recurrences requiring PPIs; control groups: no GERD symptoms on PPI). Follow up was
      conducted for 6 months after randomization. In addition to the primary efficacy measure, we
      examined total resource utilization (pharmacy and non-pharmacy), HRQOL, and potential
      predictors of non-response to step-down or intermittent therapy (requirement of daily PPI to
      control symptoms). Logistic regression and random-effects models adjusted for covariates and
      clustering effects.

      Status:

      Enrollment and follow-up have been completed. Efficacy measures are reported above. Outcome
      measures including comparison of direct health care costs, health-related quality of life,
      and determinants of non-response to step-down or intermittent therapy are being examined.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Patients with GERD symptoms treated with PPIs. For the purpose of this study, GERD
             symptoms include heartburn or acid regurgitation. Symptoms of dyspepsia (epigastric
             pain, nausea, bloating, early satiety) may be present, but may not be used as the
             sole criteria for inclusion into the study.

          2. Asymptomatic (no heartburn or acid regurgitation) on PPI therapy.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Complications of gastroesophageal reflux disease including esophageal stricture,
             hemorrhage due to erosive esophagitis, Barretts esophagus or adenocarcinoma of the
             esophagus, or extra-esophageal manifestations of reflux disease (pulmonary or
             laryngeal disease due to acid reflux).

          2. Concurrent diagnoses of other gastrointestinal diseases including gastric or duodenal
             ulcer, Zollinger-Ellison syndrome or other hypersecretory disorders, or gastric
             cancer.

          3. Esophagitis secondary to non-acid peptic causes: infections (viral, bacterial,
             fungal), or medications causing esophageal erosions.

          4. Inability to maintain follow-up, either due to excessive distance to the VA primary
             care facility or lack of telephone services.

          5. Unwillingness to participate in the study.
      
