TITLE:
Deep Brain Stimulation for Treatment-Resistant Obsessive Compulsive Disorder

CONDITION:
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder

INTERVENTION:
Deep Brain Stimulation

SUMMARY:

      This study will evaluate the use of Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) to reduce symptom severity
      and enhance the quality of life for patients with treatment-resistant obsessive compulsive
      disorder (OCD).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Despite advances in pharmacological and behavioral therapies for OCD, a substantial number
      of patients fail to improve significantly following years of conventional and experimental
      interventions. For some patients, stereotactic neurosurgery is the only promising option
      available. Although this procedure has relatively few side effects in the majority of OCD
      patients and may lead to enduring benefits, its effects on brain tissue and function are
      irreversible. Bilateral deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an adjustable and partially
      reversible procedure that may be a more effective treatment for patients with OCD. This
      study will determine the effectiveness, safety, and tolerability of DBS in patients with
      treatment-refractory OCD.

      Participants receive DBS treatment for 30 months. Obsessive Compulsive scales, depression
      scales, neuropsychological evaluations, and surveys are used to assess participants.

      Participants are monitored for 2 years after DBS treatment.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 23 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Intractable, malignant, and treatment refractory OCD that has caused substantial
             suffering and a reduction in the patient's psychosocial functioning for > 5 years

          -  Poor prognosis without neurosurgical intervention

          -  Failed an adequate trial of clomipramine and at least two of the following selective
             serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs): fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, citalopram,
             sertraline, and paroxetine. Additionally, patients must have failed augmentation
             treatment with at least one of the above drugs for 1 month with at least two of the
             following: clonazepam, haloperidol, risperidone, olanzapine, and gabapentin.

          -  Willingness to undergo augmentation treatment with a low-dose neuroleptic if tics are
             present prior to surgery

          -  Failed an adequate trial of cognitive behavioral therapy/exposure response prevention
             while taking clomipramine and an SSRI

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Current or lifetime Axis I diagnosis that substantially complicates function,
             treatment, or the subject's ability to comply with study procedures, or may lead to
             serious adverse events such as overdose, attempted suicide, or other potentially
             threatening behaviors

          -  Diagnosis and/or treatment for depression within the past year. Patients with a more
             distant history of depression will not be excluded.

          -  Previous neurosurgical procedure or AXIS III diagnosis of brain pathology

          -  Implants that contain electrical circuitry, generate electrical signals, and/or have
             metal parts

          -  Nonremovable body jewelry

          -  Anticoagulants or other medications that would put patients at risk for
             surgery-related complications

          -  Diathermy for physical therapy

          -  Pregnancy
      
