TITLE:
Cisplatin-Epinephrine Injectable Gel Plus Paclitaxel and Carboplatin in Treating Patients With Recurrent Head and Neck Cancer

CONDITION:
Head and Neck Cancer

INTERVENTION:
carboplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Giving more than one drug and giving the drugs in different
      ways may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of cisplatin-epinephrine injectable gel
      plus paclitaxel and carboplatin in treating patients who have recurrent head and neck
      cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the antitumor activity of intratumoral cisplatin-epinephrine
      injectable gel and systemic paclitaxel and carboplatin in patients with recurrent squamous
      cell carcinoma of the head and neck. II. Determine the safety of this regimen in this
      patient population. III. Determine the time to progression, pattern of progression, and rate
      of relapse of patients treated with this regimen. VI. Determine the time to response and
      duration of response of patients treated with this regimen. V. Determine the overall
      survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients receive cisplatin-epinephrine gel
      intratumorally on days -15, -8, 1, 8, 15, and 22 for course 1 and days 1, 8, 15, and 22 for
      all subsequent courses. Patients also receive paclitaxel IV over at least 3 hours followed
      by carboplatin IV over at least 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve local complete
      response (CR) and no metastatic disease progression continue treatment with carboplatin and
      paclitaxel only. Patients who achieve total CR may receive 2 additional courses of
      carboplatin and paclitaxel. Patients are followed at 1-4 weeks and then every 3 months
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed recurrent primary squamous cell
        carcinoma of the head and neck The following other histological types are also eligible:
        Epithelial carcinoma Verrucous carcinoma Sarcomatoid squamous cell carcinoma
        Lymphoepithelioma Pseudosarcoma Anaplastic carcinoma Transitional cell carcinoma At first
        relapse after prior definitive surgery, radiotherapy, and/or chemotherapy and not a
        candidate for potentially curative salvage surgery or salvage radiotherapy Relapsed or
        metastatic disease in one of the following primary head and neck areas or other metastatic
        sites of skin or soft tissue accessible for local injection: Oral cavity (including
        tongue, floor of mouth, uvula, and tonsil) Hypopharynx Larynx Nasopharynx Paranasal sinus
        Salivary gland Tridimensionally measurable disease Tumor no greater than 20 cm3 At no
        immediate risk of invasion of a major vessel of the extracranial vascular system (e.g.,
        the common, internal, or external carotid artery or the vertebral artery) Amenable to
        direct injection by physical exam, ultrasound, or CT guidance Visceral metastases (e.g.,
        lung) allowed but not eligible for injection with cisplatin-epinephrine gel

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: ECOG 0-2 Life expectancy: At
        least 3 months Hematopoietic: Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3 Neutrophil count at
        least 1,500/mm3 Hemoglobin at least 10 g/dL Hepatic: Bilirubin less than 3 mg/dL AST no
        greater than 3 times upper limit of normal (ULN) Alkaline phosphatase no greater than 3
        times ULN Albumin no greater than 2.5 g/dL PT within 3 seconds of normal Renal: Creatinine
        no greater than 1.5 times ULN OR Creatinine clearance at least 50 mL/min Cardiovascular:
        See Disease Characteristics No New York Heart Association class III or IV heart disease
        Other: No other malignancy within the past 5 years except nonmelanoma skin cancer outside
        the area of planned cisplatin-epinephrine gel treatment No known hypersensitivity to
        cisplatin, carboplatin, paclitaxel, bovine collagen, epinephrine, or sulfites No infection
        requiring parenteral antibiotics No medical or psychiatric condition that would preclude
        informed consent Not pregnant or nursing Negative pregnancy test Fertile patients must use
        effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: See Disease
        Characteristics At least 28 days since prior chemotherapy and recovered Prior carboplatin
        or taxanes allowed, but not in combination Endocrine therapy: Concurrent stable-dose
        prednisone/prednisolone for chronic disease allowed Concurrent stable-dose corticosteroid
        inhalants for asthma prophylaxis allowed Concurrent dexamethasone as an antiemetic allowed
        Radiotherapy: See Disease Characteristics At least 28 days since prior radiotherapy and
        recovered Concurrent limited-field radiotherapy for symptomatic metastatic disease not
        amenable to cisplatin-epinephrine gel allowed Surgery: See Disease Characteristics At
        least 28 days since prior surgery and recovered Other: No concurrent anesthetics or
        topical preparations containing epinephrine No other concurrent cancer therapy No drugs
        that interact with cisplatin (e.g., probenecid or thiazide) during and for 28 days after
        study
      
