TITLE:
Expanded Access Study of Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody

CONDITION:
Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody

SUMMARY:

      The primary objective of this study is to make Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody more broadly
      available to patients. Secondary endpoints of the study will be to obtain additional
      information on the efficacy and safety of Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION CRITERIA:

          -  Patients must have a histologically confirmed diagnosis of low-grade NHL or
             transformed low-grade NHL according to International Working Formulation for Clinical
             Usage. (The following low-grade histologies are to be included: small lymphocytic;
             follicular, small cleaved; and follicular, mixed small-cleaved and large cell [<50%
             large cell component]). Tumor must be positive for CD20 antigen.

          -  Patients must have been treated with at least one chemotherapy regimen and have
             relapsed or progressed, or failed to achieve an objective response (CR or PR) on
             their last chemotherapy regimen.

          -  Patients must have a Karnofsky performance status of at least 60% and an anticipated
             survival of at least 3 months.

          -  Patients must have an absolute granulocyte count greater than or equal to 1,500/mm3,
             a platelet count greater than or equal to 100,000/mm3, and not require sustained
             support of hematopoietic cytokines or transfusion of blood products.

          -  Patients must have adequate renal function (defined as serum creatinine <1.5 times
             upper limit of normal), hepatic function (defined as total bilirubin <1.5 times upper
             limit of normal), and hepatic transaminases (defined as AST <5 times upper limit of
             normal).

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

          -  Patients with a mean of >25% of the intratrabecular marrow space involved with
             lymphoma on bilateral iliac crest bone marrow biopsy. Patients with a <10% lymphoma
             involvement on unilateral biopsy do not require bilateral biopsy.

          -  Patients who have received cytotoxic chemotherapy, radiation therapy, immunotherapy,
             or cytokine treatment within 4 weeks prior to study entry (6 weeks for nitrosourea
             compounds) or who exhibit persistent clinical evidence of toxicity. Patients who have
             received systemic steroids within 1 week of study entry are excluded, except patients
             on maintenance steroid therapy for a non-cancerous disease.

          -  Patients who have undergone treatment with either stem cell or bone marrow
             transplant.

          -  Patients with active obstructive hydronephrosis.

          -  Patients with evidence of active infection requiring IV antibiotics at the time of
             study entry.

          -  Patients with New York Heart Association class III or IV heart disease or other
             serious illness that would preclude evaluation.

          -  Patients with known HIV infection.

          -  Patients who are pregnant or nursing. Males and females must agree to use a
             contraceptive method from enrollment to 6 months after receiving Iodine-131 Anti-B1
             Antibody.

          -  Patients with prior malignancy other than lymphoma, except for adequately-treated
             skin cancer (basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma), in situ cervical cancer, or
             other cancer for which the patient has been disease-free for 5 years. Patients who
             have been disease-free of another cancer for greater than 5 years must be carefully
             assessed at the time of study entry to rule out recurrent disease.

          -  Patients with progressive disease within 1 year of irradiation arising in a field
             that has been previously irradiated with more than 3500 cGy.

          -  Patients who previously received radioimmunotherapy.

          -  Patients who are receiving either approved or non-approved (through another protocol)
             anti-cancer drugs or biologics.

          -  Patients with known brain or leptomeningeal metastases.

          -  Patients who are HAMA positive.
      
