TITLE:
Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients With Liver Cancer

CONDITION:
Liver Cancer

INTERVENTION:
AFP

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Vaccines made from a person's white blood cells mixed with tumor proteins may
      make the body build an immune response to kill tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of vaccine therapy in treating patients
      who have liver cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of alpha-fetoprotein peptide-pulsed autologous
           dendritic cells in HLA-A*0201-positive patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.

        -  Determine the safety and toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the immunological effects of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the progression-free survival and clinical responses in patients treated with
           this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive alpha-fetoprotein peptide-pulsed autologous dendritic cells intradermally
      on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for a total of 3 doses in the absence of
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-12 patients receive escalating doses of vaccine until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 or 2
      of 12 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed at weeks 1, 4, and 12 and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 12-18 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  HLA-A*0201 positive adults over the age of 18.

          -  Have HCC with a serum AFP determination >30ng/ml.

          -  Both male and female patients may be enrolled.

          -  Karnofsky Performance Status greater than or equal to 70 percent.

          -  No previous evidence of class 3 or greater New York Heart Association cardiac
             insufficiency or coronary artery disease.

          -  No previous evidence of opportunistic infection.

          -  Adequate baseline hematological function as assessed by the following laboratory
             values with 30 days prior to study entry:

               1. Hemoglobin >9.0g/dl

               2. Platelets >50000/mm3

               3. Absolute Neutrophil Count >1,000/mm3

          -  Child-Pugh Class A or B for chronic liver disease.

          -  Ability to give informed consent.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Any congenital or acquired condition leading to inability to generate an immune
             response, including concomitant immune suppressive therapy.

          -  Concomitant steroid therapy or chemotherapy, or any of these other treatments < 30
             days before the first vaccination.

          -  Females of child-bearing potential must have negative serum beta-HCG pregnancy test
             (within Day -14 to Day 0).

          -  Acute infection: any acute viral, bacterial, or fungal infection, which requires
             specific therapy. Acute therapy must have been completed within 14 days prior to
             study treatment.

          -  HIV-infected patients.

          -  Patients with any underlying conditions which would contraindicate therapy with study
             treatment.

          -  Patients with organ allografts.

          -  O2 sat <91% on room air; dyspnea at rest.
      
