TITLE:
Vaccine Therapy in Preventing Flu in Children With Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia

CONDITION:
Infection

INTERVENTION:
trivalent influenza vaccine

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Flu vaccine may help the body build an immune response and decrease the
      occurrence of flu in children who are receiving chemotherapy for acute lymphoblastic
      leukemia.

      PURPOSE: Clinical trial to study the effectiveness of vaccine therapy in preventing flu in
      children who have acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the immune response, in terms of the formation of protective antibody titers
           to influenza, in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia treated with split-virus
           trivalent influenza vaccine.

        -  Correlate the formation of protective antibody titers following immunization with the
           absolute neutrophil counts and absolute lymphocyte counts in these patients at the time
           of vaccination.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to current treatment
      for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (consolidation chemotherapy vs maintenance chemotherapy vs
      off therapy for the past 6 months).

      Patients receive split-virus trivalent influenza vaccine intramuscularly once or twice at 4
      weeks apart for 2 doses.

      Patients are followed at week 5. Patients receiving 2 doses of vaccine are also followed at
      week 9.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 175 patients (50 receiving consolidation therapy, 75 receiving
      maintenance therapy, and 50 off therapy) will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 1 Year to 20 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia

               -  In first remission after completion of induction chemotherapy

               -  Currently on active treatment OR

               -  Completed treatment within the past 6 months

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  1 to 20 at time of diagnosis

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Pulmonary:

          -  No acute respiratory distress

        Other:

          -  No history of Guillain-Barre syndrome

          -  No history of hypersensitivity to chicken eggs, egg products, or components of
             influenza virus vaccine, including thimerosal

          -  No febrile illness with fever over 100.4 degrees F

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  At least 7 days since prior antibiotic or antiviral therapy except prophylactic
             antibiotics
      
