TITLE:
Radiosurgery With or Without Whole-Brain Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Brain Metastases

CONDITION:
Metastatic Cancer

INTERVENTION:
radiation therapy

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Radiosurgery may
      be able to deliver x-rays directly to the tumor and cause less damage to normal tissue. It
      is not yet known if radiosurgery is more effective with or without whole-brain radiation
      therapy in treating brain metastases.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of radiosurgery with or
      without whole-brain radiation therapy in treating patients who have brain metastases.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients with 1 to 3 cerebral metastases treated with
           radiosurgery with or without whole brain radiotherapy.

        -  Compare the time to CNS failure (brain) in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the quality of life, duration of functional independence, and long-term
           neurocognitive status in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the post-treatment toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age
      (60 and over vs under 60), extracranial disease (controlled for more than 3 months vs
      controlled for 3 months or less), and number of brain metastases (1 vs more than 1).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo radiosurgery.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo radiosurgery. Within 14 days, patients then undergo whole
           brain radiotherapy 5 days a week for 2.5 weeks.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, the beginning of each treatment, at week 6, every 3
      months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 2 years.

      Patients are followed at weeks 6 and 12, every 3 months for 9 months, every 4 months for 1
      year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 480 patients (240 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 5 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Diagnosis of cerebral metastases meeting all of the following requirements:

               -  1-3 de novo lesions

               -  Metastases must be from a histologically confirmed extracerebral primary site,
                  another metastatic site, or from the metastatic brain lesion(s)

               -  Each lesion must be less than 3.0 cm by contrasted MRI of the brain

               -  Lesions must not be within 5 mm of optic chiasm or within the brainstem

          -  No primary germ cell tumor, small cell carcinoma, or lymphoma

          -  No leptomeningeal metastases

          -  Eligible for treatment with gamma knife or linear accelerator-based radiosurgery

          -  Performance status - ECOG 0-2

          -  Performance status - Zubrod 0-2

          -  Not pregnant

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

             * Male patients must continue to use contraception for 3 months after the completion
             of radiotherapy

          -  No pacemaker or other MRI-incompatible metal in body

          -  No known allergy to gadolinium

          -  Deemed to be at low risk for recurrence from any prior malignancies

          -  At least 7 days since prior chemotherapy

          -  Concurrent hormonal agents allowed

          -  Concurrent steroids allowed

          -  No prior cranial radiotherapy

          -  No prior resection of cerebral metastasis

          -  Concurrent anticonvulsants allowed provided therapeutic serum/plasma level maintained
             before study intervention
      
