TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Colorectal Cancer

CONDITION:
Colorectal Cancer

INTERVENTION:
Irinotecan 70 mg/m2

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy in
      treating patients who have advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of different schedules of irinotecan in combination with
           capecitabine as first-line therapy, in terms of objective response rate, in patients
           with advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer.

        -  Compare the time to treatment failure, time to progression, and overall survival of
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the safety profile, in terms of toxicity, of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Determine the quality of life in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      performance status (0 vs 1); disease symptoms, including pain, weight loss, loss of
      appetite, malaise, and fever of unknown origin (yes vs no); weight loss during the past 6
      months (more than 5% vs 5% or less); and disease-free interval (more than 6 months vs 6
      months or less). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive irinotecan IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 15, 22, and 29 and oral
           capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14 and 22-35.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive irinotecan IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 22 and oral
           capecitabine as in arm I.

      Treatment in both arms repeats every 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, on day 1 of each course, and at the first visit
      after treatment failure.

      Patients are followed every 12 weeks for 1 year and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 28-74 patients (14-37 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer

               -  Unresectable disease

          -  At least 1 bidimensionally measurable lesion

               -  At least 2 cm in perpendicular diameters

          -  No evidence of CNS metastases

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 to 75

        Performance status:

          -  0-1

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 3 months

        Hematopoietic:

          -  WBC at least 3,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin normal

          -  SGOT/SGPT no greater than 2.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  Alkaline phosphatase no greater than 2.5 times ULN

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.25 times ULN

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No clinically significant cardiac disease

          -  No congestive heart failure

          -  No New York Heart Association class III or IV heart disease

          -  No symptomatic coronary artery disease

          -  No uncontrolled cardiac arrhythmia

          -  No myocardial infarction within the past year

        Gastrointestinal:

          -  No evidence of dysphagia

          -  No malabsorption or intestinal obstruction that would affect absorption or excretion
             of study drugs

          -  No chronic diarrhea

        Other:

          -  No other malignancy within the past 5 years except adequately treated carcinoma in
             situ of the cervix or localized nonmelanoma skin cancer

          -  No psychiatric disability that would preclude study compliance

          -  No other significant medical condition

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior chemotherapy for advanced or metastatic disease

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Surgery:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior major surgery to the gastrointestinal tract

        Other:

          -  No concurrent therapy for history of seizures or CNS disorder
      
