TITLE:
Measurement of Outcome of Surgical Treatment in Patients With Acromegaly

CONDITION:
Acromegaly

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare growth hormone (GH) levels at baseline and after glucose suppression
      measured with both a polyclonal radioimmunoassay and a highly sensitive immunoradiometric
      assay (IRMA) in patients with acromegaly and normal volunteers.

      II. Measure the levels of IGF-I and its binding protein, IGFBP-3, in these cohorts.

      III. Determine any correlation between levels of IGF-I and IGFBP-3 and GH suppressibility as
      assessed by sensitive IRMA.

      IV. Determine if patients who demonstrate biochemical features of mild GH excess are at risk
      for progression to active disease.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: Blood samples are collected and assessed for growth hormone and IGF-I by
      polyclonal radioimmunoassay (RIA) and immunoradiometric assay (IRMA). Growth hormone is
      measured at baseline and 60, 90, and 120 minutes after a 100 g glucose drink. Serum glucose
      is measured at baseline and at 2 hours post dextrose administration by the glucose
      hexokinase method.

      Clinical scores are determined for headache, perspiration, fatigue, joint pain, and acne.

      Exams and tests may be repeated every 6 months for 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 20 Years to 75 Years
Criteria:

        PROTOCOL ENTRY CRITERIA:

        --Disease Characteristics--

        Diagnosis of acromegaly and treated with transsphenoidal surgery

        Biochemically and histologically confirmed growth hormone secreting tumor

        OR

        Healthy volunteers

        --Prior/Concurrent Therapy--

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  Greater than 6 months since prior surgery

        Other: At least 1 month since prior bromocriptine or octreotide

        --Patient Characteristics--

        Performance status: Ambulatory

        Hepatic: No active hepatic disease

        Renal: No active renal disease

        Other:

          -  No diabetes mellitus

          -  No glucose intolerance

          -  Hypopituitarism allowed if on stable doses of replacement therapy
      
