TITLE:
Diagnosis and Treatment Planning in Patients Suspected of Having Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Lung Cancer

INTERVENTION:
biopsy

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Diagnostic procedures and treatment-planning systems may affect outcome in
      patients suspected of having lung cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized diagnostic trial to compare the effectiveness of two types of diagnostic
      and treatment-planning systems in patients who are suspected of having lung cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the survival rate of patients with suspected lung cancer when
      diagnosed and managed using the conventional locally based approach versus a new centralized
      system using a 2 stop diagnosis. II. Compare the resection rate in both diagnostic arms.
      III. Assess the quality of service given in both diagnostic arms.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients present to a general practitioner where they
      are referred to the local chest clinic. Patients are seen by the chest physician and, if
      deemed eligible, are randomized between 2 diagnostic arms. Arm I (Conventional Locally Based
      Diagnosis): Patients undergo bronchoscopy and CT scan as appropriate, and then are discussed
      or referred by individual chest physicians, as is the current practice. The optimal period
      for diagnosis and discussion of management plans is 6 weeks. Arm II (Centralized 2 Stop
      Diagnosis): Patients undergo CT scan the following Monday morning. The consultant
      radiologist advises the most appropriate diagnostic test (e.g., bronchoscopy or percutaneous
      needle biopsy) to be done that same Monday. A tissue diagnosis is available Thursday morning
      for the multidisciplinary meeting attended by the chest physician, medical and clinical
      oncologists, and a surgeon, and the patient treatment plan is decided. Quality of life is
      assessed at baseline and at 6 weeks. Patients are followed for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 252-315 patients will be accrued for this study within 2
      years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Possible diagnosis of lung cancer Fit enough for bronchoscopy and
        CT scan

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: Not specified Performance status: Not specified Life
        expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic: Not specified Renal: Not
        specified

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Not specified
      
