TITLE:
A Phase I/II Study of Induction Chemotherapy With Daunorubicin, Cytarabine, Topotecan and Etoposide

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
Cytarabine

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy in treating
      patients who have previously untreated acute myeloid leukemia.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of topotecan when combined with
           daunorubicin, cytarabine, and etoposide in patients with de novo acute myeloid
           leukemia.

        -  Determine the efficacy of this regimen at the MTD of topotecan by measuring the
           complete response rate in this patient population.

        -  Determine the days of hospitalization and number of infections associated with this
           regimen in these patients.

        -  Correlate serum levels of topotecan and etoposide with the expression of topoisomerase
           I and II in tumor cells and in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMN), as well as
           with toxicity and response rate in these patients.

        -  Correlate tumor cell and PBMN expression and activity of topoisomerase I and II with
           hematological toxicity and clinical response in these patients.

        -  Correlate levels of activation of STAT signaling proteins with expression of bcl-2
           family proteins and response to chemotherapy in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of topotecan (phase I) followed by a response
      rate-determination (phase II) study.

      Patients receive induction chemotherapy with daunorubicin IV over 10-15 minutes on days 1-3,
      cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-5, topotecan IV continuously on days 6-8, and etoposide
      IV over 60 minutes on days 9 and 10. Within 4 weeks of hematologic recovery, patients
      achieving remission after induction receive consolidation chemotherapy with cytarabine IV
      over 1 hour every 12 hours on days 1, 3, and 5. Subsequent courses of consolidation
      chemotherapy begin within 2 weeks of documentation of hematologic recovery from the prior
      consolidation course. Consolidation chemotherapy continues for 4 courses in the absence of
      unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of topotecan until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, additional
      patients are accrued to receive induction chemotherapy at the recommended phase II dose.

      Patients are followed at 1 month, every 2 months for 1 year, every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-36 patients (phase I) and then an additional 24-27 patients
      (phase II) will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to 59 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed newly diagnosed, previously untreated acute myeloid leukemia
             (AML)

               -  All FAB types, M0-M7, excluding M3

               -  No AML after myelodysplastic syndrome

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  16 to 59

        Performance status:

          -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin less than 2 mg/dL

          -  SGOT/SGPT normal unless due to leukemic disease

          -  Alkaline phosphatase normal unless due to leukemic disease

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2.0 mg/dL OR

          -  Creatinine clearance greater than 60 mL/min

        Cardiovascular:

          -  Ejection fraction at least 50% by MUGA

          -  No myocardial infarction or serious ventricular arrhythmia within the past 6 months

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No other prior malignancy within the past 5 years except resected skin cancer

          -  HIV negative

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior topotecan or any other DNA topoisomerase I inhibitor (e.g., irinotecan,
             aminocamptothecin, or nitrocamptothecin) or etoposide for any prior malignancy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified
      
