TITLE:
Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation to Prevent Neutropenia in Patients Receiving Chemotherapy for Relapsed or Refractory Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma

CONDITION:
Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
epoetin alfa

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Peripheral stem cell transplantation may be able to replace immune cells that
      were destroyed by chemotherapy used to kill cancer cells. Treating the peripheral stem cells
      in the laboratory may improve the effectiveness of the transplant.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of peripheral stem cell transplantation in
      patients who have relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and who will be treated with
      high-dose chemotherapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the toxicity of ex vivo expanded peripheral blood mononuclear cells (EVE
           PBMNC) as a supplement to high-dose chemotherapy and conventional autograft in patients
           with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

        -  Compare the effect of EVE PBMNC on white blood cell, red blood cell, and platelet
           recovery in patients on this study vs historical controls, matched by protocol, disease
           status, and prior therapy.

        -  Determine the optimal duration of culture and time of harvest for the production of
           neutrophils in vivo.

        -  Determine the relationships between length of culture, immunophenotype, and clinical
           outcome.

        -  Determine the required numbers of white blood cell precursors for clinical efficacy.

        -  Assess the need for multiple transfusions of EVE PBMNC during the post-transplantation
           period.

      OUTLINE: Autologous peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMNC) are harvested. Unselected
      PBMNC are cultured and expanded ex vivo in flt3 ligand, interleukin-3, filgrastim (G-CSF),
      sargramostim (GM-CSF), and epoetin alfa for 13 days. Expanded PBMNC are reinfused on day 0.

      Patients are followed monthly for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 24 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 17 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically proven relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma

          -  Scheduled to undergo high-dose chemotherapy (carmustine, etoposide, cytarabine, and
             melphalan) with autologous peripheral blood mononuclear cell transplantation

          -  No metastatic disease involving the bone marrow

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  17 to 65

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0 or 1

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Absolute neutrophil count greater than 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count greater than 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  No active hepatitis B or C

          -  Bilirubin less than 2.5 times normal*

          -  SGOT or SGPT less than 2.5 times normal*

          -  Alkaline phosphatase less than 2.5 times normal NOTE: * Unless Gilbert's syndrome
             present

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine clearance greater than 50 mL/min

        Cardiovascular:

          -  Cardiac ejection fraction normal

        Pulmonary:

          -  DLCO at least 50% predicted

          -  FEV_1 and FVC at least 75% predicted

        Other:

          -  HIV negative

          -  Not pregnant

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  No non-neoplastic disease that would preclude intensive chemotherapy

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Chemotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No prior external beam radiotherapy to more than 25% of the active bone marrow

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified
      
