TITLE:
A Multi-Centered Study of the Long-Term Effect of Salmeterol and Albuterol in Cystic Fibrosis

CONDITION:
Cystic Fibrosis

INTERVENTION:
Salmeterol

SUMMARY:

      Long term use of bronchodilators in CF is beneficial to the improvement of pulmonary
      function and symptoms. This study is investigating the long-term benefit of administration
      of the drug Salmeterol, a bronchodilator. Salmeterol will be compared to albuterol or
      placebo. The medication will be inhaled twice a day for 6 months.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients that have been diagnosed with cystic fibrosis and are above 5 years and below 45
      years of age are eligible. Subjects will be randomized into 1 of 3 groups. One group will
      get Salmeterol by multi-dose inhaler (MDI) 2 puffs 2 times a day, one group will get
      albuterol by MDI 2 puffs 2 times a day and the other will get placebo by MDI 2 puffs 2 times
      a day. Height and weight along with pulmonary function testing and vital signs will be
      monitored at the beginning of the study and at Visits 2, 3, and 4. Peak flow monitoring will
      be done each morning before study medication at home. A daily diary will be kept of this
      measurement. Subjects will be seen in the research center at visits 1,2,3, and 4. Telephone
      contact will be done at Day 15, 60, 120, and 150. Individual outcomes include a potential
      increase in pulmonary function testing and a decrease in frequency of pulmonary
      exacerbations, hospitalizations, and usage of antibiotics.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 5 Years to 45 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Ability to perform reproducible spirometry

          -  FEVI > 50% and < 90% (Knudsen)

          -  A CF pulmonary exacerbation within the last year or an FEVI<80%

          -  At least one delta f508 allele on CF mutation analysis

          -  Ability to demonstrate use of inhaled medicine and FEVI and PEFR monitor

          -  Written informed consent

          -  Negative serum pregnancy test on enrollment
      
