TITLE:
Clinical Trial of Creatine in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis

CONDITION:
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis

INTERVENTION:
Creatinine

SUMMARY:

      The objective of this study is to determine whether creatine slows disease progression in
      subjects with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). ALS is a progressive uniformly lethal
      neurodegenerative disorder for which there is no known cure. Recent genetic and biochemical
      studies implicate free radical toxicity, glutamate excitotoxicity and mitochondrial
      dysfunction as possible causes of familial ALS (FALS) and sporadic ALS (SALS). It has been
      hypothesized that in ALS there may be involvement of oxidative free radical damage and
      impaired mitochondrial energy metabolism that could in turn lead to excitotoxic cell death.
      Creatine, an agent that improves mitochondrial function, has been shown to be
      neuroprotective in animal models of ALS and Huntington's disease.

      This study is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of the safety and
      efficacy of creatine in patients with ALS enrolled at sites distributed throughout the
      United States, including Northeast ALS (NEALS) sites. The study will provide preliminary
      data on the safety and efficacy of creatine in ALS. If creatine slows disease progression in
      ALS and is well tolerated, a phase 3 study with survival as the primary outcome measure will
      be initiated.

      114 eligible subjects will be randomized to receive treatment for 6 months of (1) active
      creatine or (2) placebo. After randomization, subjects will be followed prospectively for 6
      months. The primary outcome measure for the study is the change in upper extremity motor
      function after 6 months of experimental therapy as tested with the Tufts Quantitative
      Neuromuscular Exam. Strength in eight arm muscles will be measured (bilateral shoulder and
      elbow flexion and extension). Secondary outcome measures include grip strength, motor unit
      number estimates (MUNE), the ALS functional rating score-revised (ALSFRS-R), and rate of
      change of a well established biochemical marker of oxidative damage to DNA (8OH2'dG levels
      in urine), and the safety and tolerability of creatine.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  ALS

          -  FVC >=50%

          -  Abnormality in upper and/or lower extremity motor function

          -  Not pregnant

          -  Disease duration <5 years
      
