TITLE:
A Multicenter, Prospective, Randomized, Double-Blind Clinical Trial Comparing Itraconazole Oral Solution in Cyclodextrin to Placebo in the Treatment of Aspergilloma

CONDITION:
Aspergillosis

INTERVENTION:
Itraconazole oral solution

SUMMARY:

      To compare the safety and effectiveness of itraconazole oral solution to placebo in the
      treatment of a pulmonary aspergilloma.

      Aspergilloma is a "fungal ball" in the lungs caused by Aspergillus. The infection can spread
      from the lungs through the blood to other organs. Aspergilloma can be life-threatening;
      therefore, an effective treatment is needed.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients are randomly selected to receive itraconazole oral solution by mouth or the
      inactive placebo (oral cyclodextrin solution) twice daily for 12 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

        You may be eligible for this study if you:

          -  Are 18 years of age or older.

          -  Have been diagnosed with aspergilloma within the last month.

          -  Have (or have a history of) at least one of the following:

               1. positive test for Aspergillus species.

               2. presence of antibodies to Aspergillus.

          -  Are willing to participate in the study for 2 full years.

          -  Are female and not pregnant.

          -  Are not breast-feeding.

          -  Agree to use barrier methods of birth control / contraception during the study and
             for 30 days after.

        Exclusion Criteria:

        You will not be eligible for this study if you:

          -  Have a history of allergy to triazole or imidazole drugs.

          -  Are unable to take oral medication.

          -  Are not expected to live for more than a month.

          -  Have had a lung biopsy indicating Aspergillus infection.

          -  Have had radiation therapy within the last 6 months.

          -  Require treatment with certain medications.

          -  Received amphotericin, amphotericin lipid formulation, fluconazole, or itraconazole
             in the two weeks prior to study entry.

          -  Received chemotherapy within the last 6 months.
      
