TITLE:
Biological Therapies Following Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation in Treating Patients With Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma, Hodgkin's Disease, or Advanced Breast Cancer

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
aldesleukin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Interleukin-2 may stimulate a person's white blood cells to kill cancer cells.
      Filgrastim and stem cell factor may increase the number of immune cells found in bone marrow
      or peripheral blood and may help a person's immune system recover from the side effects of
      cancer therapy. Peripheral stem cell transplantation may be able to replace immune cells
      that were destroyed by therapy used to kill cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of interleukin-2 and stem cell factor
      following peripheral stem cell transplantation in treating patients who have non-Hodgkin's
      lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease, or advanced breast cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose of interleukin-2 (IL-2) and
      stem cell factor (SCF) following autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in
      patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or advanced breast cancer. II. Determine the
      effectiveness of filgrastim (G-CSF) and SCF as mobilizing agents in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of stem cell factor (SCF). Patients receive
      filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) followed by SCF SC daily for 7-10 days. Beginning on
      the fifth day of G-CSF and SCF injections, peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are collected
      over several days. PBSC are later reinfused and patients receive G-CSF SC daily until
      hematopoietic recovery. At least 30 days but no later than 110 days following transplant,
      patients who did not experience adverse reactions to SCF during mobilization begin
      posttransplant immunotherapy. Patients receive interleukin-2 SC daily and SCF SC 3 times
      weekly for 6 weeks. Treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease
      progression. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of SCF during posttransplant
      immunotherapy until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as
      the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose limiting
      toxicities. Patients are followed at 1 week, every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 6
      months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 27 patients will be accrued for this study within 1-1.5
      years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Hodgkin's disease, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, or advanced stage
        breast cancer Planned treatment is autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation
        No T-cell lymphomas Hormone receptor status: Not specified

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 to 65 Menopausal status: Not specified Performance
        status: Not specified Life expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic:
        Not specified Renal: Not specified Immunologic: No history of seasonal or recurrent asthma
        within the past 5 years No concurrent asthmatic symptoms (e.g., wheezing) related to a
        current respiratory tract infection No anaphylactic/anaphylactoid type event manifested by
        disseminated urticaria, laryngeal edema, hypotension, and/or bronchospasm (e.g., food or
        insect venom) within the past 5 years Drug allergies manifested solely by rash allowed No
        history of angioedema or recurrent urticaria lasting longer than 14 days No history of
        hereditary or acquired angioedema No known allergy to E. coli derived products Other: Not
        pregnant Negative pregnancy test Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: See Disease Characteristics At least 1 week
        since prior hematopoietic growth factors Chemotherapy: Not specified Endocrine therapy: No
        concurrent steroids Radiotherapy: No concurrent radiotherapy Surgery: Not specified Other:
        No concurrent beta adrenergic blocking agents No concurrent therapeutic antibiotics
        posttransplant No concurrent IV hyperalimentation or IV fluids posttransplant
      
