TITLE:
Minimal Breathing Support and Early Steroids to Prevent Chronic Lung Disease in Extremely Premature Infants (SAVE)

CONDITION:
Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia

INTERVENTION:
Minimal mechanical ventilation management

SUMMARY:

      This multicenter clinical trial tested whether minimal ventilation decreases death or BPD.
      Infants with birth weight 501g to 1000g and mechanically ventilated before 12 hours were
      randomly assigned to minimal ventilation (partial pressure of carbon dioxide [PCO(2)] target
      >52 mm Hg) or routine ventilation (PCO(2) target <48 mm Hg) and a tapered dexamethasone
      course or saline placebo for 10 days, using a 2 x 2 factorial design. The primary outcome
      was death or BPD at 36 weeks' postmenstrual age. Blood gases, ventilator settings, and FiO2
      were recorded for 10 days; complications and outcomes were monitored to discharge. The
      infants' neurodevelopment was evaluated at 18-22 months corrected age.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Chronic lung disease (CLD), also known as bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), in very
      premature infants has been associated with mechanical ventilation and relative adrenal
      insufficiency.

      This multicenter clinical trial tested whether minimal ventilation decreases death or BPD.
      Infants with birth weight 501g to 1000g and mechanically ventilated before 12 hours were
      randomly assigned to minimal ventilation (partial pressure of carbon dioxide [PCO(2)] target
      >52 mm Hg) or routine ventilation (PCO(2) target <48 mm Hg) and a tapered dexamethasone
      course or saline placebo for 10 days, using a 2 x 2 factorial design. The primary outcome
      was death or BPD at 36 weeks' postmenstrual age. Blood gases, ventilator settings, and FiO2
      were recorded for 10 days; complications and outcomes were monitored to discharge.

      The trial was terminated by the Steering Committee when the interim analysis for the Data
      Safety and Monitoring Committee showed a higher rate of spontaneous gastrointestinal
      perforations in the dexamethasone-treated infants.

      Neurodevelopment was assessed at 18-22 months postmenstrual age.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 10 Days
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Greater than 12 hrs of age and less than 10 days chronologic age

          -  501-1000 gm

          -  Intubated and mechanically ventilated before 12 hrs

          -  Indwelling vascular catheter

          -  Infants 751-100 gm must be receiving FiO2 greater than 0.30 and have received at
             least 1 dose of surfactant at randomization

          -  Parental consent

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Major congenital anomaly

          -  Symptomatic non-bacterial infection

          -  Permanent neuromuscular conditions that affect respiration

          -  Terminal illness (defined as pH values less than 6.8 for more than 2 hours or
             persistent bradycardia associated with hypoxia for more than 2 hours)

          -  Use of postnatal corticosteroids
      
