TITLE:
Effectiveness of Treating HIV-Positive Patients With an HIV Vaccine (Remune)

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Lamivudine/Zidovudine

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to see if it is effective to add an HIV vaccine (Remune) to the
      anti-HIV drug combination of Combivir (zidovudine plus lamivudine) and nelfinavir.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      All patients begin HAART at study entry (Day 1). Patients with a plasma HIV-1 RNA level less
      than or equal to 2,000 copies/ml at Week 8 are randomized to receive Remune or Incomplete
      Freund's Adjuvant (IFA) at Week 9. Patients who do not achieve a plasma HIV-1 RNA level of
      less than or equal to 2,000 copies/ml at Week 8 are not randomized and are terminated from
      the study. These patients are eligible to receive funding for up to a 3-month supply of
      nelfinavir (Viracept) and Combivir. Randomized patients receive Remune or IFA at Week 9 and
      approximately every 12 weeks thereafter until study completion (when the last patient
      reaches Week 48). Patients are considered virologic failures if they (1) fail to achieve a
      virologic response by Week 48 or (2) after achieving a virologic response, have a virologic
      relapse. Regardless of their previous response status, patients whose plasma HIV-1 RNA level
      increases to greater than 2,000 copies/ml while they are receiving protocol-specified HAART
      are eligible to receive salvage therapy and continue to receive Remune or IFA until study
      completion. Study visits occur at screening, Day 1, Weeks 4, 8, 9, 12, and then every 4
      weeks thereafter until the last patient reaches Week 48. Patients who complete this study
      are eligible to participate in a rollover study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients may be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are HIV-positive.

          -  Are at least 13 years old (consent of parent or guardian required if under 18).

          -  Have a viral load of at least 10,000 copies/ml.

          -  Have a CD4 count of at least 250 cells/mm3.

          -  Have never taken any anti-HIV drugs before.
      
