TITLE:
Treatment With Octreotide in Patients With Lymphangioleiomyomatosis

CONDITION:
Lymphangioleiomyomatosis

INTERVENTION:
Octreotide

SUMMARY:

      Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM), a disease primarily of women of child-bearing age, is
      characterized by cystic lung disease and abdominal tumors (e.g., angiomyolipomas). Within
      the LAM patient population is a subset of patients who develop chylous effusions and
      lymphangioleiomyomas. Treatment of many of these symptoms has been ineffective. Previous
      studies with somatostatin and octreotide in other clinical settings have shown reduction in
      chylous effusions. This study assesses the effectiveness of octreotide in symptomatic
      patients with LAM, lymphangioleiomyomas and/or chylous effusions/ascites, peripheral
      lymphedema and chyluria.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM), a disease primarily of women of child-bearing age, is
      characterized by cystic lung disease and abdominal tumors (e.g., angiomyolipomas). Within
      the LAM patient population is a subset of patients who develop chylous ascites, chylous
      pleural effusions, chyluria, peripheral lymphedema, and/or lymphangioleiomyomas.
      Lymphangioleiomyomas are believed to result from a proliferation of abnormal smooth muscle
      cells within the lymphatic system, which appears to obstruct fluid outflow, leading to fluid
      accumulation and an increase in size. The lymphangioleiomyomas may occur anywhere along the
      axial lymphatic chain. In patients with LAM, they occur most frequently in the thorax,
      abdomen and pelvis and may give rise to a myriad of symptoms (e.g., paresthesias,
      palpitations, peripheral edema). In some patients, treatment of many of these symptoms,
      i.e., elevation of lower extremities, paracentesis, thoracentesis, diuretics, and/or
      surgery, has been ineffective. Previous studies with somatostatin and octreotide in other
      clinical settings (e.g., traumatic damage to the lymphatics) have shown a successful
      reduction in chylous effusions, chyluria, ascites, and peripheral lymphedema, when other
      therapies were less effective. This study will assess the effectiveness of octreotide in
      symptomatic patients with LAM, lymphangioleiomyomas and/or chylous effusions/ascites,
      peripheral lymphedema and chyluria. The dose of octreotide starts at 50 micrograms (ug) by
      the subcutaneous route twice a day. After two weeks the dose will be increased to 200 ug per
      day and two weeks later to 400 ug/day. Maximal dose is 400 ug twice a day.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Patients enrolled in the lymphangioleiomyomatosis natural history protocol who have
        symptoms associated with one of the following:

          1. lymphangioleiomyomas

          2. chylous pleural effusions

          3. peripheral lymph-edema

          4. chyloptysis

          5. protein-losing enteropathy

          6. chyluria

        Patients will be included in this protocol if symptoms are attributed to the above
        processes. Patients with malabsorption disorders, diabetes, hypo/hyperthyroidism, or other
        endocrine-related disorders will be included if justified clinically based on severity of
        symptoms.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

          1. Hypersensitivity to somatostatin, octreotide or its analogues

          2. Patients with hepatitis B, hepatitis C, or other clinically significant liver
             diseases

          3. Transplant patients

          4. Pregnant women or women who are beast-feeding

          5. Patient or another responsible party is unable to give the subcutaneous injection

          6. Patient unwilling to be followed per the guidelines set forth

          7. Patients with decreased renal function (creatinine greater than 1.5)

          8. Patients with HIV infection

          9. Immunosuppressed patients
      
