TITLE:
A Comparison of Two Anti-HIV Treatment Plans

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to compare 2 treatment plans to try to increase the effects of
      anti-HIV drugs in patients who are resistant to the drug effects.

      Sometimes the increase in a patient's viral load (the level of HIV in the blood) can be
      slowed or stopped by taking anti-HIV drugs. This does not always happen. Sometimes anti-HIV
      drugs work at first but then stop working. When most of the usual anti-HIV drugs no longer
      seem to work, the virus is called multidrug-resistant (MDR). This study will compare 2
      treatment plans to try to increase the effects of anti-HIV drugs in patients with MDR virus.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      An increasing number of patients are developing multidrug-resistant (MDR) virus, as
      determined by genotypic antiretroviral resistance testing (GART), due to treatment failure
      to suppress viral replication after several rounds of combination antiretroviral therapy.
      The best therapeutic strategy for these patients is uncertain. Two strategies currently
      being used are (1) STI followed by a new antiretroviral regimen and (2) immediate initiation
      of a new antiretroviral regimen.

      Patients are screened for the presence of MDR virus and a plasma HIV RNA level greater than
      10,000 [AS PER AMENDMENT 07/03/01: greater than 5,000] copies/ml. Eligible patients attend a
      baseline visit [AS PER AMENDMENT 07/03/01: and a subsequent randomization visit] where the
      qualifying GART results are provided. Patients who consent to participate have phenotypic
      antiretroviral resistance testing (PART) done on a specimen from the same blood draw that
      was used for the GART evaluation. After PART results are available, patients are randomized
      [AS PER AMENDMENT 07/03/01: If the predicted sensitivities are not available for some or all
      drugs included in the PART, the patient may still be randomized.] to either a 4-month STI
      followed by a new antiretroviral regimen or an immediate new antiretroviral regimen. The
      antiretroviral regimens chosen are based on the patients' history and both GART and PART
      results. [AS PER AMENDMENT 07/03/01: Additional GART and PART may be requested after at
      least 4 months of antiretroviral treatment.] Patients have the follow-up data collection
      done at Months 1-8 and every 4 months thereafter. Changes in antiretroviral therapy, Grade 4
      adverse experiences, progression of disease, and deaths are reported as they occur. Patients
      are seen for clinical management as often as deemed necessary. All patients are followed to
      a common closing date estimated to be 24 months after the last patient is randomized. Some
      patients may participate in a Point Mutation Substudy [AS PER AMENDMENT 07/03/01: Plasma
      Point Mutation Substudy and PBMC Point Mutation Substudy].
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients may be eligible if they:

          -  Have proof of MDR virus from a blood test.

          -  Have a viral load above 5,000 copies/ml from the same blood sample showing MDR virus.

          -  Intend to start a new anti-HIV treatment around the time of the study.

          -  Have been on a stable anti-HIV treatment between 14 days prior to the blood test
             mentioned above and when they are randomly assigned to a treatment.

          -  Are at least 13 years old (consent of parent or guardian required if under 18).

          -  (This protocol has been changed to reflect new criteria.)

        Exclusion Criteria

        Patients will not be eligible if they:

          -  Have received a vaccine or had an illness that might affect viral load within 14 days
             before the blood test showing MDR virus.

          -  Have received IL-2 within 4 months of the above-mentioned blood test or plan to take
             IL-2 during the study.

          -  Have an opportunistic (AIDS-related) infection requiring treatment.

          -  Are pregnant or breast-feeding.

          -  Are currently participating in CPCRA 057 (PIP study).
      
