TITLE:
Low-Dose Total-Body Irradiation and Fludarabine Phosphate Followed By Donor Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Stage IV Kidney Cancer

CONDITION:
Recurrent Renal Cell Cancer

INTERVENTION:
fludarabine phosphate

SUMMARY:

      The reason for doing this study is to see if cancer will respond to immune therapy after
      transplantation of blood stem cells (from the bone marrow) using a new kind of treatment
      regimen that is less toxic than that previously used for blood stem cell transplants. This
      type of transplant uses much less chemotherapy and radiation than standard bone marrow
      transplants. The treatment consists of medications that weaken the immune system so it
      doesn't reject the donor's marrow cells. Researchers hope that the immune cells from the
      donor will attack the tumor. This is called a "graft versus tumor" effect and has been seen
      in other types of cancer. In addition, 65 days or more after the transplant the patient may
      be eligible for an immune treatment that uses additional immune cells from the donor to
      increase the effect of the stem cells against the cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether mixed or full donor hematopoietic chimerism can be safely
      established using a non-myeloablative conditioning regimen.

      II. To determine whether mixed chimerism can be safely converted to full donor hematopoietic
      chimerism by infusions of donor lymphocytes (DLI).

      III. To evaluate potential efficacy of this approach as a treatment for metastatic renal
      cancer.

      OUTLINE:

      CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) on days -4
      to -2 and undergo low-dose total-body irradiation (TBI) on day 0.

      TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplant on day 0.

      IMMUNOSUPRESSION: Patients receive cyclosporine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) or IV once
      daily (QD) or BID on days -3 to 35 with taper to day 56, and mycophenolate mofetil PO or IV
      over 2 hours thrice daily (TID) on days 0-40.

      DLI: Patients with stable mixed chimerism on day 56 with no evidence of graft-vs-host
      disease (GVHD) may receive escalating doses of non-mobilized DLI over 30 minutes. Patients
      may receive up to 4 DLIs at escalating doses if there is disease progression with no
      evidence of GVHD.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 5 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 74 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with histologically confirmed stage IV renal cancer who have stable
             (including those rendered to be in remission) or progressive disease

          -  Human lymphocyte antigen (HLA) genotypically identical related donor willing to
             undergo leukapheresis initially for collection of peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC)
             and subsequently for collection of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC)

          -  Ionized calcium level within normal limits

          -  DONOR: HLA genotypically identical family member (excluding identical twins)

          -  DONOR: Donor must consent to filgrastim (G-CSF) administration and leukapheresis

          -  DONOR: Donor must have adequate veins for leukapheresis or agree to placement of
             central venous catheter (femoral, subclavian)

          -  DONOR: Age < 75 years

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients who have positive serologies for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)1 and 2,
             human T-lymphotropic virus (HTLV)-1

          -  Patients unwilling to use contraceptive techniques during and for 12 months following
             treatment

          -  Serum creatinine > 2.0; the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center (FHCRC) Patient
             Care Conference (PCC) may approve patients with elevated serum creatinine following
             presentation and approval; centers outside the FHCRC that have a PCC or equivalent
             should obtain their institutional approval; if there is not a comparable group at the
             institution, please contact the FHCRC Principal Investigator for FHCRC approval
             through PCC

          -  Cardiac ejection fraction < 50%; ejection fraction is required if the patient has a
             history of anthracyclines or history of cardiac disease

          -  Diffusion capacity of carbon monoxide (DLCO) < 50% of predicted, total lung capacity
             (TLC) < 50%, forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) < 50%

          -  Liver function tests including total bilirubin, serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase
             (SGPT) and serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT) > 2 x the upper limit of
             normal unless due to the malignancy

          -  Karnofsky score < 80

          -  Brain metastasis

          -  Ongoing active bacterial, viral or fungal infection

          -  Pregnancy or breastfeeding

          -  Patients with other active non-hematologic malignancies (except non-melanoma skin
             cancers)

          -  Patients with a history of other non-hematologic malignancies (except non-melanoma
             skin cancers) currently in a complete remission, who are less than 5 years from the
             time of complete remission, and have a > 20% risk of disease recurrence

          -  The addition of cytotoxic agents for "cytoreduction" with the exception of Gleevec
             (imatinib mesylate), cytokine therapy, hydroxyurea, low dose cytarabine,
             chlorambucil, or rituxan will not be allowed within three weeks of the initiation of
             conditioning

          -  DONOR: Age less than 12 years

          -  DONOR: Pregnancy

          -  DONOR: Infection with HIV

          -  DONOR: Inability to achieve adequate venous access

          -  DONOR: Known allergy to G-CSF

          -  DONOR: Current serious systemic illness

          -  DONOR: Failure to meet criteria for donation as described in the Standard Practice
             Guidelines of the institution
      
