TITLE:
Lymphatic Mapping and Sentinel Lymph Node Biopsy in the Treatment of Colorectal Cancer

CONDITION:
Colorectal Cancer

INTERVENTION:
Preoperative Endoscopy

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Diagnostic procedures, such as lymph node mapping and biopsy, may improve the
      ability to detect the extent of colorectal cancer.

      PURPOSE: Diagnostic trial to study the feasibility of lymph node mapping and sentinel lymph
      node biopsy in patients who have stage I, stage II, or stage III colorectal cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the feasibility of lymphatic mapping and sentinel lymph node biopsy
      in patients with stage I, II, or III colorectal cancer. II. Evaluate technetium Tc 99m
      sulfur colloid as a mapping agent in this patient population. III. Identify patients with
      histologically negative nodes but have positive nodes on further detailed examination.

      OUTLINE: Patients undergo preoperative endoscopy with injection of technetium Tc 99m sulfur
      colloid around tumor followed by celiotomy and intraabdominal exploration. At 30 minutes
      following injection, patients undergo lymphatic mapping with a gamma probe and biopsy of the
      sentinel lymph node(s). Following biopsy and mapping, patients undergo resection of primary
      tumor. Patients are followed postoperatively, every 4-6 months for 2 years, every 6 months
      for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 10 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Preoperative diagnosis of stage I, II, or III colorectal cancer
        No more than 90 days since diagnosis No tumor involving adjacent structures (T4 lesion) No
        clinical or radiological evidence of stage IV disease No total excision of primary tumor
        at diagnosis

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: Karnofsky 60-100% Life
        expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic: No severe decompensated
        liver disease, including cirrhosis Renal: Not specified Other: No known primary or
        secondary immunodeficiencies No other medical conditions or evidence of infection that
        would preclude study Not pregnant Negative pregnancy test

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: See Disease Characteristics No prior colonic, aortic, or
        retroperitoneal surgery
      
