TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy Plus Fluoxetine in Treating Patients With Advanced or Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Anxiety Disorder

INTERVENTION:
cisplatin

SUMMARY:

      This trial is designed to test the efficacy of fluoxetine to improve patient's quality of
      life during chemotherapy. An innovative application of a selective serotonin reuptake
      inhibitor may modulate the effects of fatigue, anxiety and depression which worsen quality
      of life.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary Objectives:

        1. To preliminarily test the efficacy of fluoxetine to improve the quality of life of
           patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer receiving chemotherapy by decreasing
           anxiety, depression and fatigue.

        2. To test the feasibility of conducting a multi-center clinical trial of fluoxetine
           administered by oncologists concurrently with chemotherapy in patients with non-small
           cell lung cancer.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To describe the tumor response rate associated with the administration of
           gemcitabine/cisplatin in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer.

        2. To describe the overall survival and failure-free survival associated with the
           administration of gemcitabine/cisplatin.

        3. To describe the toxicity associated with the administration of gemcitabine/cisplatin.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Eligibility Criteria:

          1. Histologic Documentation: All patients must have histologically or cytologically
             documented, non-small cell carcinoma of the lung (adenocarcinoma, large cell,
             squamous, or mixtures of these types).

          2. Extent of Disease: Stage IIIB/IV cancer by the international staging system or any
             Stage I-IIIA otherwise eligible patient with recurrent or progressive NSCLC after
             surgery or radiotherapy.

               -  Patients with Stage IIIB because of a malignant pleural effusion,
                  supraclavicular node involvement, or contralateral hilar nodes are eligible
                  (IIIB patients eligible for CALGB protocols of combined chemotherapy and chest
                  irradiation are not eligible.

               -  Patients with known CNS metastases are not eligible.

          3. Measurable or Non-Measurable Disease

               -  Measurable Disease: Lesions that can be accurately measured in at least one
                  dimension (longest diameter to be recorded) as  20 mm with conventional
                  techniques or as  10 mm with spiral CT scan.

               -  Non-measurable Disease: Only those non-measurable disease patients with
                  ill-defined masses associated with post-obstructive changes and diffuse
                  parenchymal malignant disease are eligible. All other lesions, including small
                  lesions (longest diameter < 20 mm with conventional techniques or < 10 mm with
                  spiral CT scan) and truly non-measurable lesions, are not eligible.

             Lesions that are considered non-measurable include the following:

               -  Bone lesions

               -  Leptomeningeal disease

               -  Ascites

               -  Pleural/pericardial effusion

               -  Abdominal masses that are not confirmed and followed by imaging techniques

               -  Cystic lesions

          4. Prior Treatment:

               -  No prior chemotherapy.

               -   2 weeks since radiation therapy.

               -  No antidepressant treatment (eg, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors,
                  tricyclics, novel antidepressants, St. John's Wort or monoamine oxidase
                  inhibitors) currently or within the last month.

          5. If the patient requires pain medication, pain must be managed with non-codeine
             preparations, including but not limited to: acetaminophen, any morphine based
             preparation (short or long acting), hydromorphone, fentanyl, levorphanol or
             methadone.

          6. CTC Performance Status 0-1.

          7. Non-pregnant and non-nursing because of significant risk to the fetus/infant.

          8. Required Initial Laboratory Data:

               -  Granulocytes  1,500/l

               -  Platelet count  100,000/l

               -  Serum creatinine  1.5 mg/dl or Calculated CrCl  60 ml/min

               -  Bilirubin  2.0 x Upper Limit of Normal (ULN)

               -  Serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT)  2.0 x ULN
      
