TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy Plus Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation With or Without Rituximab in Treating Patients With Relapsed Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma

CONDITION:
Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Peripheral stem cell transplantation may allow the doctor to
      give higher doses of chemotherapy drugs and kill more cancer cells. Monoclonal antibodies
      such as rituximab can locate cancer cells and either kill them or deliver cancer-killing
      substances to them without harming normal cells. It is not yet known if combination
      chemotherapy plus peripheral stem cell transplantation is more effective with or without
      rituximab for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

      PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is studying giving combination chemotherapy and
      peripheral stem cell transplantation together with rituximab to see how well it works
      compared to combination chemotherapy and peripheral stem cell transplantation alone in
      treating patients with relapsed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the effects of in vivo rituximab purging and maintenance on progression-free
           survival in patients with relapsed or resistant follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
           undergoing high-dose chemotherapy.

        -  Determine the effects of this regimen on response rate and overall survival in this
           patient population.

        -  Determine the effects of in vivo purging with rituximab on molecular remission rates in
           the hematopoietic product and the patients.

        -  Determine the safety of rituximab in the transplant setting.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to type of remission (complete vs good partial) and which remission (second vs
      third). Patients are randomized to one of four treatment arms.

      All patients receive induction chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide IV over 3-4 hours on
      day 0 or a standard induction chemotherapy regimen. Filgrastim (G-CSF) is administered
      subcutaneously daily beginning on day 1.

      Patients are then randomized to receive either in vivo rituximab purging or no purging
      following restaging after completion of induction. For those patients receiving purging
      (arms I and II), rituximab is administered IV once weekly for 4 weeks.

      Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are collected between days 8 and 12 post induction
      chemotherapy. Within 4 weeks of PBSC collection, patients receive carmustine IV over 2 hours
      on day -6, etoposide IV over 2 hours on days -5 to -2, cytarabine IV over 5 minutes twice
      daily on days -5 to -2, and melphalan IV over 10-15 minutes on day -1. (Alternatively, high
      dose cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation beginning 2-4 weeks after cyclophosphamide
      or standard induction chemotherapy priming is also allowed.) PBSC are reinfused on day 0.

      Patients are further randomized to receive either rituximab maintenance or observation only.
      For those patients receiving maintenance (arms I and III), rituximab is administered IV once
      every 2 months for 4 doses beginning 30 days after PBSC reinfusion.

      Patients are followed at 30 days, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after PBSC transplant, every 6
      months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 460 patients (115 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 5 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Relapsed or resistant follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL)

               -  No evidence of transformation to high grade or diffuse large B-cell NHL

          -  CD20 positive with no evidence of transformation

          -  Achievement of complete remission (CR) or very good partial remission (VGPR)
             following reinduction chemotherapy with any standard regimen

               -  Includes patients who fail to respond to first-line chemotherapy but who achieve
                  CR or VGPR after proceeding directly to second-line chemotherapy

          -  Platelet count greater than 100,000/mm^3 after induction chemotherapy and before
             randomization

          -  No CNS involvement

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  WHO 0-1

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin normal

          -  ALT no greater than 2 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  Alkaline phosphatase no greater than 2 times ULN

          -  Hepatitis B negative

          -  Hepatitis C negative

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2 times ULN

          -  BUN no greater than 2 times ULN

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No inadequate cardiac function

        Pulmonary:

          -  No inadequate pulmonary function

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  HIV negative

          -  No other uncontrolled serious medical conditions

          -  No other malignancy within the past 5 years except nonmelanoma skin tumors or
             carcinoma in situ of the cervix

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  More than 12 months since prior CD20 therapy, including rituximab

          -  No prior peripheral blood stem cell transplantation

        Chemotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No more than 3 prior chemotherapy regimens for NHL

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No prior radiotherapy to greater than 30% of bone marrow

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified
      
