TITLE:
Trastuzumab and Docetaxel in Treating Patients Who Have Metastatic Prostate Cancer That Is Refractory to Hormone Therapy

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
trastuzumab

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies such as trastuzumab can locate tumor cells and either kill
      them or deliver tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Drugs used in
      chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or
      die. Combining monoclonal antibody therapy with chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to compare the effectiveness of trastuzumab alone and in combination
      with docetaxel in treating patients who have metastatic prostate cancer that is refractory
      to hormone therapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy and toxicity of docetaxel (arm I) vs trastuzumab (Herceptin) (arm
           II), followed by a combination of docetaxel and trastuzumab in patients with
           androgen-independent or hormone-refractory metastatic, Her2/neu-positive prostate
           cancer. (Arm I closed to accrual effective 07/30/2001.)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour weekly for 6 weeks. Treatment
           continues every 8 weeks for at least 2 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.
           (Arm I closed to accrual effective 07/30/2001. Arm I patients crossover to arm II.)

        -  Arm II: Patients receive trastuzumab (Herceptin) IV over 30-90 minutes weekly for 8
           weeks. Treatment continues every 8 weeks for at least 2 courses in the absence of
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with progressive or stable disease after 2 courses of single-agent therapy receive
      docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1 of each week for 6 consecutive weeks and trastuzumab IV
      over 30-90 minutes on day 1 of each week for 8 consecutive weeks. Treatment continues every
      8 weeks for at least 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Patients with complete or partial response to single-agent therapy continue on that therapy
      until experiencing progressive or stable disease. The patients then proceed to combination
      therapy.

      Patients are followed until death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 108-160 patients (54-80 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study. (Arm I closed to accrual effective 07/30/2001.)
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed stage IV prostate cancer (any T, any N, M1, any G; D3)

          -  Clinical evidence of metastatic disease in bone or soft tissue

          -  Her2/neu-positive (2+ and 3+) by immunochemistry or fluorescent in situ hybridization

          -  Androgen-independent

               -  Serum PSA at least 10 ng/mL that has risen on 3 successive evaluations after
                  prior hormonal therapy

               -  At least 1 month since prior antiandrogen therapy (e.g., flutamide,
                  bicalutamide, or nilutamide) and rising PSA levels with 1 of the 2 rising PSA
                  levels, measured at least 2 weeks apart, after antiandrogen withdrawal

          -  Bone only disease and elevated PSA alone allowed

          -  LHRH analog therapy must continue in patients who have not had prior orchiectomy and
             have castrate levels of testosterone

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  SWOG 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 12 weeks

        Hematopoietic:

          -  WBC at least 3,500/mm3

          -  Absolute granulocyte count at least 1,800/mm3

          -  Platelet count at least lower limit of normal (LLN)

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 2 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  SGOT no greater than 2 times ULN

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.6 mg/dL

          -  Creatinine clearance at least 50 mL/min

        Cardiovascular:

          -  Ejection fraction more than 50% or more than LLN by MUGA scan or 2-D echocardiogram

          -  No symptomatic coronary artery disease

          -  No active ischemia on EKG

        Other:

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No other prior malignancy within the past 5 years except adequately treated basal
             cell or squamous cell skin cancer

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  No concurrent biologic therapy

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No more than one prior nonanthracycline chemotherapy regimen (including suramin)

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No concurrent corticosteroids as antiemetic

        Radiotherapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy

          -  At least 3 months since prior strontium chloride Sr 89 and recovered

          -  No concurrent radiotherapy to measurable lesions

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics
      
