TITLE:
ISIS 2503 in Treating Patients With Advanced Cancer of the Pancreas

CONDITION:
Pancreatic Cancer

INTERVENTION:
ISIS 2503

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of ISIS 2503 in treating patients who
      have advanced cancer of the pancreas.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the response rate and time to progression in patients with advanced
      adenocarcinoma of the pancreas who are treated with ISIS 2503. II. Determine the duration of
      response in these patients receiving this regimen. III. Characterize the safety profile of
      ISIS 2503 at the recommended phase II dose and schedule in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive ISIS 2503 IV continuously for 14 days. Treatment continues every
      21 days for a minimum of 3 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease
      progression.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 14-27 patients will be accrued for this study within 12
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed advanced adenocarcinoma of the pancreas
        that is considered inoperable Measurable disease with at least 1 lesion measuring at least
        2 cm in widest diameter identifiable on CT or MRI scan

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: ECOG 0-1 Life expectancy:
        Not specified Hematopoietic: Absolute neutrophil count greater than 1,500/mm3 Platelet
        count greater than 100,000/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than 2.0 mg/dL Renal:
        Creatinine no greater than 2.0 mg/dL Other: Not pregnant or nursing Negative pregnancy
        test Fertile patients must use effective barrier contraception during and for 6 months
        after study No underlying disease state associated with active bleeding No active
        infection requiring therapy No other prior malignancy within the past 5 years except
        nonmelanoma skin cancer

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: No concurrent biologic therapy for pancreatic
        cancer Chemotherapy: No prior chemotherapy for pancreatic cancer except for fluorouracil
        and/or gemcitabine administered as a radiosensitizer No other concurrent chemotherapy for
        pancreatic cancer Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: Prior radiotherapy
        allowed provided indicator lesions not within prior radiation port Recovered from toxicity
        No concurrent radiotherapy for pancreatic cancer Surgery: See Disease Characteristics
        Other: No concurrent anticoagulation therapy with heparin No other concurrent approved or
        experimental cancer therapy
      
