TITLE:
Suberoylanilide Hydroxamic Acid in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors That Have Not Responded to Previous Therapy

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
vorinostat

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid in
      treating patients who have advanced primary or metastatic solid tumors that have not
      responded to previous therapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid
      (SAHA) in patients with refractory malignancies. II. Assess the pharmacokinetic profile of
      SAHA in these patients. III. Assess the biologic effects of SAHA on normal tissues and on
      tumor cells in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients receive suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid
      (SAHA) IV over 2 hours on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 8 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Accelerated Phase: One patient per
      dose level receives escalating doses of SAHA until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is
      determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which a patient experiences
      grade 2 or greater toxicity (other than hemoglobin anemia) with the first course or when 2
      different patients experience a grade 2 toxicity (other than hemoglobin anemia) during any
      course of treatment. Standard Phase: Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of
      SAHA until the MTD is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 45 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed primary or metastatic malignancy
        refractory to standard therapy or for which no curative therapy exists No progressive
        metastatic disease requiring palliative therapy within 4 weeks of study Progressive
        disease Increase in preexisting lesions on imaging or physical examination Patients with
        sole progression criterion of increased biochemical marker (e.g., carcinoembryonic antigen
        or CA 15-3) or increased symptoms not eligible Prostate cancer must be either progressive
        metastatic disease on imaging studies or have rising PSA values Minimum of 3 rising PSA
        values obtained at least 1 week apart, or 2 rising PSA values more than 1 month apart,
        with at least a 25% overall increase Serum testosterone less than 50 ng/mL Must maintain
        castrate status No active CNS or epidural tumor

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: Karnofsky 70-100% Life
        expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: WBC at least 3,500/mm3 Platelet count at least
        100,000/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than 1.0 mg/dL AST no greater than 37 U/L PT no
        greater than 14 seconds Renal: Creatinine no greater than 2.0 mg/dL Cardiovascular: No
        significant cardiac disease No New York Heart Association class III or IV heart disease
        Pulmonary: No severe debilitating pulmonary disease Other: No infection requiring IV
        antibiotic treatment No other severe medical problems that would preclude study Not
        pregnant or nursing Negative pregnancy test Fertile patients must use effective
        contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Recovered from prior biologic therapy
        Chemotherapy: At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy and recovered Endocrine therapy:
        Recovered from prior endocrine therapy Radiotherapy: At least 4 weeks since prior
        radiotherapy and recovered No concurrent radiotherapy to target lesions Surgery: Not
        specified Other: At least 4 weeks since other prior investigational anticancer drugs and
        recovered No concurrent ketoconazole in patients with prostate cancer
      
