TITLE:
Oxaliplatin With Or Without Floxuridine and Leucovorin in Treating Patients With Metastatic Cancer of the Peritoneum

CONDITION:
Cancer

INTERVENTION:
floxuridine

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of oxaliplatin with or without floxuridine
      and leucovorin in treating patients who have metastatic cancer of the peritoneum.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of intraperitoneal oxaliplatin with or without
           intraperitoneal floxuridine and leucovorin calcium in patients with metastatic cancer
           confined to the peritoneal cavity.

        -  Determine dose limiting and nondose limiting toxicities and pharmacokinetics of these
           treatment regimens in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of oxaliplatin.

      Patients receive intraperitoneal (IP) oxaliplatin over 1 hour on day 1 every 2 weeks for 2
      courses.

      Beginning at course 3, patients receive oxaliplatin with floxuridine and leucovorin calcium
      IP on day 1 and floxuridine and leucovorin calcium IP alone on days 2 and 3. Treatment
      repeats every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients with complete surgical resection of disease receive a total of 6 courses of
      combination chemotherapy.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of oxaliplatin until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicity.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed metastatic or unresectable cancer largely
             confined to the peritoneal cavity

               -  Fully resected and/or electrocauterized metastatic disease involving the
                  peritoneum (stage IV, no residual disease) allowed

          -  No known brain metastases

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  WBC at least 3,000/mm^3

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin normal

          -  SGOT/SGPT no greater than 2.5 times upper limit of normal

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine normal OR

          -  Creatinine clearance at least 60 mL/min

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No symptomatic congestive heart failure

          -  No unstable angina pectoris

          -  No cardiac arrhythmia

        Other:

          -  No history of allergy to platinum compounds or antiemetics that would preclude study

          -  No other uncontrolled illness (e.g., active infection)

          -  No evidence of neuropathy

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior cytotoxic chemotherapy (6 weeks for mitomycin or
             nitrosoureas) and recovered

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy and recovered

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Other:

          -  No other concurrent investigational agents

          -  No concurrent antiretroviral therapy (HAART)
      
