TITLE:
The Evaluation of Oral Acitretin in the Treatment of Psoriasis, Cutaneous Disorders of Keratinization, Multiple Basal Cell Carcinomas and Other Retinoid Responsive Diseases

CONDITION:
Basal Cell Carcinoma

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This is a continuing study which evaluates the long-term safety and efficacy of oral
      acitretin in an open manner in the treatment of psoriasis, cutaneous disorders of
      keratinization, multiple basal cell carcinomas and other retinoid responsive diseases.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This is a continuing study which evaluates the long-term safety and efficacy of oral
      acitretin in an open manner in the treatment of psoriasis, cutaneous disorders of
      keratinization, multiple basal cell carcinomas and other retinoid responsive diseases.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Patients with widespread involvement (e.g. psoriasis patients with 10 percent or more of
        body surface area involved) or with severe, recalcitrant localized involvement with a
        cutaneous disorder (e.g. keratoderma palmaris et plantaris).

        Patients (and parents of patients who are less than 18 years old) must be advised of
        presently available alternative forms of therapy.

        Patient must be available for and agreeable to regular follow up examinations in the
        clinic for clinical evaluation, blood tests, diagnostic x-rays and possibly skin biopsies.

        The patient (and parent, guardian, or surrogate where appropriate) must give written
        informed consent after protocol, including its limitations and risks, are thoroughly
        discussed with the patients (and parents).

        Patients who have multiple skin cancers because of xeroderma pigmentosum (XP).

        No patients with persistently abnormal (SGOT or SGPT greater than 3 times the upper limit
        of normal) liver function tests.

        No patients with persistent pre-treatment hypertriglyceridemia (greater than 300 mg/dl).

        No patients with persistently abnormal (creatinine greater than 3 times the upper limit of
        normal) renal function tests.

        No patients with presence of a significant neurological, musculoskeletal or other internal
        medical disorder which may be aggravated by the addition of retinoid therapy.

        Patient must not be pregnant or anticipate such an event. Because of the long-term storage
        of etretinate, a known teratogen, fertile women who may be treated in this protocol, must
        have skin disease that is severe and recalcitrant to all other standard modalities. These
        women must also use an effective form of contraception (oral contraceptives or an
        intrauterine device) while on treatment and at least for 3 years post treatment.

        No patients with chronic intake of excessive dietary vitamin A (more than 25,000 iu/day).
      
