TITLE:
Fludarabine and Thalidomide in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
fludarabine phosphate

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as fludarabine, work in different ways to stop
      cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Biological therapies such as
      thalidomide use different ways to stimulate the immune system and stop cancer cells from
      growing. Combining fludarabine with thalidomide may kill more cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of thalidomide
      when given together with fludarabine and to see how well they work in treating patients with
      newly diagnosed B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety and efficacy of fludarabine and thalidomide in patients with newly
           diagnosed B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

        -  Determine the overall response rate (complete and partial) in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the duration of response in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, phase I, dose-escalation study of thalidomide followed by a
      phase II study.

        -  Phase I: Beginning on day 1, patients receive oral thalidomide once daily for up to 6
           months. Beginning on day 7, patients also receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes daily
           for 5 days. Treatment with fludarabine repeats every 28-35 days for up to 6 courses.
           Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of thalidomide until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive fludarabine and thalidomide as in phase I at the MTD.

      Patients are followed at 4 weeks, every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 4 months for 2
      years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Up to 45 patients ( 9 for the phase I portion and  36 for the phase II
      portion) will be accrued for this study within 8 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Confirmed diagnosis of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) based on the
             following criteria:

               -  Peripheral blood lymphocytosis > 5,000/mm^3

               -  Co-expression of CD5, CD19 or CD20, and CD23 surface antigens

               -  Clonal kappa or lambda light chain expression

          -  No recurrent or refractory CLL

          -  No other lymphoproliferative diseases or diseases due to transformation of CLL, such
             as prolymphocytic leukemia or Richter's syndrome

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  Karnofsky 60-100%

        Life expectancy

          -  At least 12 weeks

        Hematopoietic

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin < 1.5 mg/dL

          -  AST < 2.5 times upper limit of normal

        Renal

          -  Creatinine  1.5 mg/dL

        Cardiovascular

          -  No cardiac arrhythmia within the past 6 months

          -  No myocardial infarction within the past 6 months

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use at least 1 highly active and 1 additional method of
             contraception for 4 weeks before, during, and for at least 4 weeks after study
             treatment

          -  Patients must have sufficient mental capacity to understand the study explanation and
             provide informed consent

          -  No other malignancy within the past 5 years except basal cell skin cancer or
             carcinoma in situ of the cervix

          -  No active serious infection uncontrolled by antibiotics

          -  No medical condition or reason that would preclude study participation

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Surgery

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  No prior therapy for CLL
      
