TITLE:
Adult-to-Adult Living Donor Liver Transplantation Study

CONDITION:
Cirrhosis

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      There are two principal purposes of this study: 1) to determine whether it is more
      beneficial for a liver transplant recipient candidate to pursue a living donor liver
      transplant (LDLT) or wait for a deceased donor liver transplant (DDLT), and 2) to study the
      impact of liver donation on the donor's health and quality of life.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Adult to adult living donor liver transplantation (LDLT) is a relatively new procedure
      increasingly used at major transplantation centers. Relatively small numbers of cases are
      performed at any one center and approaches to the patient and donor are too diverse across
      centers to provide reliable and generalizable information on donor and recipient outcomes
      from individual centers. Therefore, a network of nine leading liver transplantation centers
      and a data coordination center (DCC) has been organized to accrue and follow sufficient
      numbers of patients being considered for and undergoing LDLT to provide generalizable
      results from adequately powered studies. This network has established the Adult to Adult
      Living Donor Liver Transplantation Cohort Study (A2ALL) that will conduct both retrospective
      and prospective studies of LDLT.

      The primary study objective is to analyze the effect of choosing to pursue living liver
      donation. The principal hypothesis is that pursuit of a living liver allograft leads to
      decreased pre-transplant morbidity and mortality and better long term outcomes for patients
      starting from the point at which listed patients have a potential donor evaluated (at least
      a history and physical examination). Emerging data suggest that LDLT provides an inferior
      graft because of reduced parenchymal mass and added technical complexity when compared to a
      whole liver used for DDLT. The magnitude of the disadvantage to the LDLT graft will be
      assessed by comparing results between LDLT and DDLT from the time of transplant. Finally, a
      careful and detailed series of studies of potential and actual living liver donors is
      included as a primary objective because of the tremendous importance of this issue to our
      understanding of the impact of the procedure.

      Secondary objectives will address selected biological and clinical issues in transplantation
      structured around the comparison between DDLT and LDLT.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria - Potential Recipients:

          -  Potential recipient listed for single organ (liver) transplantation

          -  Patient is eligible for LDLT

          -  Age  18 years old at the time of donor history and physical exam

          -  Indication for transplant: non-fulminant liver disease

          -  Potential donor scheduled for evaluation (history and physical examination) within
             four weeks

        Inclusion Criteria - Potential Donors:

          -  Meet donor criteria of the transplant center

          -  Age >= 18 years old at donation

          -  Be evaluated with a history and physical examination at the transplant center

          -  Potential donor's recipient listed for single organ (liver) transplantation
      
