TITLE:
Study of the Effects of Dopaminergic Medications on Dopamine Transporter Imaging in Parkinson's Disease

CONDITION:
Parkinson Disease

INTERVENTION:
levodopa

SUMMARY:

      Study participants who have been clinically diagnosed with Parkinson disease will receive no
      treatment, treatment with either levodopa, or treatment with Mirapex for a period of 12
      weeks. Over the course of the study subjects will travel to the Institute for
      Neurodegenerative Disorders (IND) in New Haven, Connecticut for brain imaging.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Brain imaging will be conducted three times during this study. Study participants will
      travel to IND for [123I]-CIT and SPECT imaging (scan 1). Subjects will be randomized to no
      treatment, treatment with either levodopa, or treatment with Mirapex and undergo treatment
      for a period of 12 weeks. Subjects will return to IND for [123I]-CIT and SPECT imaging
      (scan 2) after 12 weeks of treatment and withdraw from the medication following the scan.
      Eight to 12 weeks after medication withdrawal, a final [123I]-CIT and SPECT imaging study
      (scan 3) will be performed at IND. The imaging outcome, striatal uptake of [123I]-CIT, from
      scan 1 (untreated) and scan 2 (treated with levodopa or pramipexole) will be compared to
      determine if there is a significant change in the uptake of the marker that may be
      attributed to levodopa or pramipexole treatment. In addition, scan 3 will be compared to
      scan 2 to determine the duration and reversibility of any regulatory effect that occurs. The
      subjects will be randomized, but not blinded to study drug assignment. The imaging
      technologist and all imaging analyses will be performed by investigators blinded to study
      drug assignment.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 30 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  30 years or older at time of Parkinson Disease (PD) diagnosis

          -  clinical diagnosis of PD of equal to or less than 7.5 years

          -  Normal laboratory screening

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Participant is pregnant

          -  Participant has atypical or drug induced PD

          -  Participant has significant dementia
      
