TITLE:
Gefitinib and Everolimus in Treating Patients With Stage IIIB or Stage IV or Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Lung Cancer

INTERVENTION:
everolimus

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Gefitinib and everolimus may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the
      enzymes necessary for their growth. Giving gefitinib together with everolimus may kill more
      tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects, best way to give, and best dose
      of giving gefitinib with everolimus and to see how well it works in treating patients with
      stage IIIB or stage IV or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of everolimus when administered with gefitinib in
           patients with stage IIIB or IV or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer. (Phase I)

        -  Determine the efficacy of this regimen in these patients. (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  Assess the pharmacokinetics of everolimus, alone and in combination with gefitinib, in
           these patients. (Phase I)

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, phase I, dose-escalation study of everolimus followed by a
      phase II study.

        -  Phase I: Patients receive oral everolimus once on day 1. Beginning on day 8, patients
           receive oral gefitinib once daily. Beginning on day 22, patients receive oral
           everolimus once daily. Both drugs are then given concurrently for the rest of the
           treatment. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of everolimus until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which no more than 1 of 6
      patients experiences dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive oral everolimus at the MTD determined in phase I and oral
           gefitinib once daily. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 120 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) meeting 1 of the
             following stage criteria:

               -  Stage IIIB (unresectable, with malignant pleural or pericardial effusion)

               -  Stage IV disease

               -  Recurrent disease

          -  Measurable or evaluable indicator lesions

          -  Progressive disease after receiving  1 prior chemotherapy regimen that included
             cisplatin or carboplatin and docetaxel

          -  No uncontrolled brain or leptomeningeal metastases

               -  Must not require concurrent glucocorticoids for control of metastases

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  Karnofsky 70-100% OR

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  WBC  3,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count  100,000/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin  9.0 g/dL

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin  1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  AST  2.5 times ULN

        Renal

          -  Creatinine  1.5 times ULN OR

          -  Creatinine clearance  60 mL/min

        Cardiovascular

          -  No congestive heart failure

          -  No New York Heart Association class III or IV heart disease

          -  No unstable angina

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No severe infection

          -  No severe malnutrition

          -  No other serious medical illness

          -  No other malignancy within the past 3 years except adequately treated basal cell or
             squamous cell skin cancer or carcinoma of the cervix

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  No concurrent biologic therapy

          -  No concurrent immunotherapy

        Chemotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No prior conventional chemotherapy for metastatic or recurrent NSCLC (phase II only)

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy

          -  No other concurrent chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No concurrent oral steroids for management of skin toxicity

        Radiotherapy

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy

          -  No concurrent radiotherapy

        Surgery

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior major surgery

          -  No concurrent surgery for an identifiable lesion

        Other

          -  Recovered from all prior therapy

          -  No prior gefitinib, erlotinib, or other epidermal growth factor tyrosine kinase
             inhibitor

          -  No concurrent cytotoxic therapy (e.g., methotrexate for rheumatoid arthritis)

          -  No other concurrent oncolytic agents
      
