TITLE:
3-AP and Doxorubicin In Treating Patients With Metastatic or Refractory Solid Tumors

CONDITION:
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific

INTERVENTION:
triapine

SUMMARY:

      This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of 3-AP and doxorubicin in
      treating patients with metastatic or refractory solid tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy,
      such as doxorubicin, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop
      growing or die. 3-AP may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary
      for tumor cell growth and may help doxorubicin kill more cancer cells by making them more
      sensitive to the drug.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To find the maximal tolerated dose for the combination of doxorubicin and Triapine in
      patients with refractory solid tumors.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To find the severity and frequency of toxicity associated with this combination and to
      observe for and record any antitumor activity.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the effect of Triapine/doxorubicin on the ribonucleotide reductase tyrosyl
      radical in vivo by EPR spectroscopy in buccal mucosal cells, peripheral blood lymphocytes
      and in tumor biopsies. Formation of low molecular weight iron-Triapine chelates will also
      be assessed by EPR.

      II. To evaluate the effect of Triapine/doxorubicin on cell cycle in vivo by measuring
      S-phase arrest in buccal mucosal cells.

      III. To evaluate the effect of Triapine/doxorubicin on MDR gene expression and
      polymorphisms in blood.

      IV. To evaluate the effect of Triapine/doxorubicin on ribonucleotide reductase R2 mRNA and
      immunohistochemistry.

      V. To evaluate the pharmacokinetic profile of the combination. VI. To measure the
      formulation of circulating isoprostanes as an indicator of oxidative stress with this
      combination.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of 3-AP (Triapine^).

      Patients receive doxorubicin IV over 15 minutes on day 1 and 3-AP (Triapine) IV over 2
      hours on days 1-4. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of 3-AP (Triapine) until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, an
      additional 6 patients are treated at that dose level.

      Patients are followed until disease progression.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients must have histologically confirmed malignancy that is metastatic or
             unresectable and for which standard curative or palliative chemotherapy measures do
             not exist or are no longer effective

          -  Patients must not have previously received anthracyclines

          -  Patients must not have received radiation to > 25% of bone marrow

          -  ECOG performance status =< 2

          -  Life expectancy of greater than 12 weeks

          -  Leukocytes >= 3,000/l

          -  Absolute neutrophil count >= 1,500/l

          -  Platelets >= 100,000/l

          -  Total bilirubin within normal institutional limits

          -  AST(SGOT)/ALT(SGPT) =< 2.5 X institutional upper limit of normal

          -  Creatinine =< 1.5 mg/dl OR creatinine clearance >= 60 mL/min/1.73 m^2 for patients
             with creatinine levels above institutional normal

          -  Patients must have LVEF > 45%

          -  Patients must have baseline screening for G6PD (glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase)
             deficiency; G6PD must be no lower than the lower limit of normal prior to starting
             study treatment; patients who are above the upper limit of normal may enroll in the
             trial

          -  Patients must have measurable or evaluable disease

          -  The effects of Triapine on the developing human fetus are unknown; for this reason
             and because heterocyclic carboxaldehyde thiosemicarbazones as well as other
             therapeutic agents used in this trial are known to be teratogenic, women of
             child-bearing potential and men must agree to use adequate contraception (hormonal or
             barrier method of birth control; abstinence) prior to study entry and for the
             duration of study participation; should a woman become pregnant or suspect she is
             pregnant while participating in this study, she should inform her treating physician
             immediately

          -  Ability to understand and the willingness to sign a written informed consent document

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients who have had chemotherapy or radiotherapy within 4 weeks (6 weeks for
             nitrosoureas or mitomycin C) prior to entering the study

          -  Patients who have not recovered from adverse events due to agents administered more
             than 4 weeks earlier; patients with grade =< 1 adverse events from prior therapies
             are eligible at the investigator's discretion

          -  Patients may not be receiving any other investigational agents

          -  Patients with known brain metastases should be excluded from this clinical trial
             because of their poor prognosis and because they often develop progressive neurologic
             dysfunction that would confound the evaluation of neurologic and other adverse events

          -  History of allergic reactions attributed to compounds of similar chemical or biologic
             composition to Triapine or other agents used in study

          -  Uncontrolled intercurrent illness including, but not limited to, ongoing or active
             infection, symptomatic congestive heart failure, unstable angina pectoris, cardiac
             arrhythmia, or psychiatric illness/social situations that would limit compliance with
             study requirements

          -  Pregnant women are excluded from this study because Triapine is a heterocyclic
             carboxaldehyde thiosemicarbazone with the potential for teratogenic or abortifacient
             effects; because there is an unknown but potential risk for adverse events in nursing
             infants secondary to treatment of the mother with Triapine, breastfeeding should be
             discontinued if the mother is treated with Triapine; these potential risks may also
             apply to other agents used in this study

          -  Patients with immune deficiency are at increased risk of lethal infections when
             treated with marrow-suppressive therapy; therefore, HIV-positive patients receiving
             combination anti-retroviral therapy are excluded from the study because of possible
             pharmacokinetic interactions with Triapine or other agents administered during the
             study; appropriate studies will be undertaken in patients receiving combination
             anti-retroviral therapy when indicated

          -  Patients with known G6PD deficiency are excluded

          -  Patients with severe pulmonary disease requiring oxygen and patients with baseline
             hypoxia (< 95% oxygen saturations) are excluded
      
