TITLE:
Pemetrexed Plus a Comparator Versus a Combination of 2 Comparators in First-Line Treatment of Colorectal Cancer

CONDITION:
Colorectal Cancer

INTERVENTION:
Pemetrexed

SUMMARY:

      In this study, patients will receive either pemetrexed plus irinotecan or 5-fluorouracil
      (5-FU), leucovorin, and irinotecan.

      The purposes of this study are to determine:

        -  How pemetrexed plus irinotecan compares with 5-FU, leucovorin, and irinotecan in terms
           of efficacy.

        -  The safety of pemetrexed plus irinotecan and any side effects that might be associated
           with it as compared with 5-FU, leucovorin, and irinotecan.

        -  Whether pemetrexed can help patients with colorectal cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

        The patient must have:

          -  Histologic or cytologic diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the colon or rectum.

          -  Performance status of 0 to 2 on the ECOG Performance Status Scale.

          -  Standard postoperative adjuvant radiation therapy for rectal cancer is allowed.

          -  Locally advanced or metastatic disease.

          -  Must be 18 years of age.

        Exclusion Criteria:

        The patient must not have:

          -  Received prior chemotherapy for advanced disease. Prior adjuvant therapy, including
             5-FU, is allowed if it has been more than 12 months since the last treatment.

          -  Received prior treatment with irinotecan in the adjuvant setting.

          -  Are unable to take vitamin B12 or folic acid.

          -  Are unable to interrupt aspirin, other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or COX-2
             inhibitors for a 5-day period.

          -  Have a second primary malignancy except carcinoma in situ of the cervix or
             nonmelanomatous skin cancer, unless that prior malignancy was diagnosed and
             definitively treated at least 5 years previously with no subsequent evidence of
             recurrence.
      
