TITLE:
Comparing Angiomax to Heparin With Protamine in Patients Undergoing Cardiopulmonary Bypass (CPB)

CONDITION:
Cardiovascular Disease

INTERVENTION:
Heparin

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to demonstrate that in patients undergoing coronary artery
      bypass grafting (CABG) or CABG-Valve, or Isolated Cardiac Valve surgery on CPB (cardiac
      surgery), Angiomax is a safe and effective alternative anticoagulant to heparin with
      protamine reversal.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

          -  Provide written informed consent before initiation of any study related procedures.

          -  Be at least 18 years of age.

          -  Be scheduled for CABG, CABG and single valve surgery, or isolated single valve
             surgery on CPB. Patients undergoing repeat (redo) CABG are also considered eligible
             for this study.

        Exclusion Criteria

          -  Confirmed pregnancy at time of randomization via IVRS (if woman of child-bearing
             potential) (Urine or serum pregnancy test)

          -  Cerebrovascular accident within 6 months, or any cerebrovascular accident with a
             residual neurological deficit.

          -  Intracranial neoplasm, arteriovenous malformation or aneurysm.

          -  Dependency on renal dialysis or creatinine clearance <30 mL/min.

          -  Ongoing treatment with warfarin (or other oral anticoagulant) at the time of
             randomization.

        Patients previously treated with warfarin may be enrolled if warfarin therapy can be
        safely discontinued and baseline INR is < 1.3 times control in the absence of heparin
        therapy.

          -  Known allergy to Angiomax or hirudin-derived drugs, or known sensitivity to any
             component of the product.

          -  Patients receiving clopidogrel (Plavix) within the previous 5 days of randomization

          -  Patients receiving a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor within the previous 48 hours if
             abciximab (ReoPro) or 24 hours if eptifibatide (Integrilin) or tirofiban
             (Aggrastat) of randomization.

          -  Patients receiving lepirudin (Refludan) or argatroban within the previous 24 hours
             prior to randomization.

          -  Patients receiving LMWH or thrombolytics within the previous 12 hours or
             unfractionated heparin within 30 minutes of randomization.

          -  Participation in other clinical research studies involving the evaluation of other
             investigational drugs or devices within 30 days of randomization.

          -  Refusal to undergo blood transfusion should it become necessary.

          -  Any other disease or condition, which, in the judgment of the Investigator, would
             place a patient at undue risk by being enrolled in the trial, or cause inability to
             comply with the trial.

          -  Planned surgical procedure in which proximal anastomoses will precede distal
             anastomoses of the bypass grafts.

          -  Planned (>1) double (or greater) valve repair-replacement (e.g.: AVR-MVR) surgery.
      
