TITLE:
Bupropion and Counseling With or Without Contingency Management to Enhance Smoking Cessation in Treating Cancer Survivors Who Continue to Smoke

CONDITION:
Cancer Survivor

INTERVENTION:
smoking cessation intervention

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Contingency management is a behavioral treatment approach that provides immediate
      rewards for positive change in behavior such as quitting smoking. In this protocol,
      contingency management will be in the form of a cash reward. A smoking cessation
      (stop-smoking) program that combines contingency management with bupropion and counseling
      may be effective in helping cancer survivors stop smoking.

      PURPOSE: Randomized clinical trial to compare the effectiveness of bupropion and counseling
      with or without contingency management in helping cancer survivors stop smoking.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the feasibility of a multi-component smoking cessation intervention comprising
           bupropion and counseling with or without contingency management (cash reward) for
           cancer survivors who continue to smoke.

        -  Compare 7-day point-prevalence abstinence rates in patients treated with these smoking
           cessation interventions.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the characteristics of these patients that predict success at quitting
           smoking.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 smoking
      cessation intervention arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral bupropion twice daily on weeks 1-12 and brief practical
           counseling (i.e., problem-solving strategies, stimulus control, stress management, and
           social support) on weeks 1-6.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive treatment as in arm I and contingency management (i.e.,
           monetary reinforcement for not smoking) on weeks 1-6.

      In both arms, treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed at 12 and 24 weeks after the completion of the smoking cessation
      interventions.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100 patients (50 per intervention arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 8 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of cancer at least 6 months before study entry

               -  No carcinoma in situ of the cervix, basal cell or squamous cell skin cancer, or
                  CNS tumor

          -  Smoking history of at least 2 years

               -  Smoked cigarettes daily for the past 30 days

          -  Completed prior cancer treatment at least 6 months, but no more than 5 years before
             study entry

               -  Concurrent tamoxifen allowed

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Platelet count  100,000 - 450,000/mm^3

          -  WBC  3,000/mm^3

        Hepatic

          -  AST and ALT  2 times upper limit of normal

          -  Bilirubin  2.0 mg/dL

        Renal

          -  Creatinine < 2.0 mg/dL

        Cardiovascular

          -  No unstable cardiovascular disease, including any of the following:

               -  High-grade atrioventricular block

               -  Neurocardiogenic syncope

               -  Unstable angina

               -  Uncompensated congestive heart failure

               -  Poorly controlled hypertension

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Able to undergo peripheral blood draw

               -  No port-a-cath or Hickman catheters

          -  Planning to reside in the Washington D.C. metro area for at least 1 year after study
             entry

          -  Willing to undergo urine testing for cotinine levels and breath testing for carbon
             monoxide monitoring

          -  No significant physical or psychological disability that would preclude study
             participation

          -  No known allergy to bupropion

          -  Baseline urine drug screen negative

               -  Prescribed pain medication allowed

          -  None of the following predisposing factors that may increase the risk of seizures
             with bupropion use:

               -  History of seizures

               -  Alcohol use > 4 oz/day

               -  History of closed head injury

               -  History of an eating disorder

               -  CNS infection

          -  No poorly controlled diabetes

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Radiotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Surgery

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  At least 2 years since prior alcohol abuse or substance abuse therapy (except for
             tobacco use or dependence)

          -  More than 14 days since prior monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor

          -  No concurrent MAO inhibitor

          -  No concurrent bupropion (Wellbutrin or Wellbutrin SR)

          -  No concurrent alcohol or substance abuse disorder treatment

          -  No concurrent nicotine replacement therapy

          -  No concurrent medications that lower seizure threshold (e.g., theophylline or
             short-acting benzodiazepines)

          -  No use of tobacco products (more than 1 time per week) other than cigarettes
      
