TITLE:
Directly Observed Therapy in HIV Infected Adolescent Focus Groups

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to help researchers use information from HIV infected
      adolescents to design a directly observed therapy (DOT) program that will help adolescents
      take their anti-HIV medications correctly.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The rate of HIV infection among adolescents is increasing at an alarming rate. Adherence to
      antiretroviral therapy has been a major challenge in achieving and maintaining adequate
      control of the disease in this population. DOT has been shown effective in individuals with
      tuberculosis (TB), but DOT in HIV infected populations has not been thoroughly examined.
      This study will collect information from HIV infected adolescents in order to establish a
      DOT program that will increase successful adherence to HIV treatment and will benefit the
      public by preventing development of viral resistance and reducing the risk of transmission.

      Adolescent participants in this study will be assigned to one of three 2-hour focus group
      sessions, each at a different site. The participants will complete a questionnaire and will
      give input about designing a DOT intervention model that will be accepted by adolescents.
      The model will then be used in a pilot study to determine the feasibility of implementing
      DOT programs in the community to help HIV infected adolescents.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to 21 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  HIV infected due to high-risk behavior

          -  Regular attendee of local adolescent HIV support group

          -  Current use of antiretrovirals or history of antiretroviral therapy

          -  Permission of parent or legal guardian if participant is less than the legal age of
             consent. Assent of the minor participant should be obtained where required.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Perinatal HIV infection

          -  Visibly distraught or emotionally unstable

          -  Pregnancy or breast-feeding
      
