TITLE:
Safety Study of SCIO-469 to Treat Patients With Active Rheumatoid Arthritis Receiving Methotrexate

CONDITION:
Rheumatoid Arthritis

INTERVENTION:
SCIO-469

SUMMARY:

      The main objective of the study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of six escalating
      doses of SCIO-469 in RA patients. SCIO-469 belongs to a new class of treatments that inhibit
      p38 kinase, a stimulatory modulator of pro-inflammatory factors including tumor necrosis
      factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1 (IL-1), and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), all of which
      are known to contribute to both symptoms and disease progression in patients with Rheumatoid
      Arthritis.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-escalating study will
      assess the safety, tolerability, efficacy, PK and pharmacodynamics of SCIO-469 in patients
      with active RA who also are receiving methotrexate. A total of 120 subjects will be randomly
      assigned and treated in one of seven dose groups with the total daily dose of SCIO-469
      ranging from 0 to 180 mg. Dose groups will be staggered over four Treatment Periods. Safety
      and available PK data from a Treatment Period with lower dose groups will be reviewed prior
      to initiating higher dose groups in the next Treatment Period. Placebo subjects will be
      randomized in all Treatment Periods. Study drug will be taken for 30 days. Each subject will
      be followed for approximately 4 weeks after completing the 30-day Treatment Period. Safety
      will be assessed by way of physical examination, medical history, vital signs, orthostatic
      vital signs, chest radiograph, 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG), clinical laboratory
      evaluations (including serum chemistry, hematology, qualitative urinalysis, and liver
      function tests), purified protein derivative test for tuberculosis, neurological tests,
      adverse events, and concomitant medications through out the study. Study drug will be
      administered for 30 days at one of the following dosage strengths; 30 mg, 60 mg, 90 mg. One
      group of subjects will get 60 mg for one week followed by 120 for one week followed by 180
      mg for two weeks.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients who have active rheumatoid arthritis and are receiving methotrexate

          -  meet the revised 1987 American Rheumatism Association (ARA) criteria for rheumatoid
             arthritis

          -  has active RA as demonstrated by 9 tender and 6 swollen joints and one of the
             following: C-reactive protein 1.0 mg/dL, Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) 28
             mm/hour, or Morning stiffness = 45 minutes. .

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patient used etanercept, infliximab, anakinra, or an experimental biologic agent
             within past 3 months

          -  Had elevation of liver enzymes within past 6 months

          -  Has a history of Tuberculosis

          -  Vertigo, inner ear, or vestibular abnormalities

          -  Cancer

          -  HIV-positive

          -  Abnormal electrocardiogram

          -  patient has chronic or acute infection

          -  Multiple sclerosis, neuropathy or encephalopathy
      
