TITLE:
BMS-247550 and Gemcitabine in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors

CONDITION:
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific

INTERVENTION:
gemcitabine hydrochloride

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combining BMS-247550 with gemcitabine
      in treating patients who have advanced solid tumors.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose, dose-limiting toxicity, and safety of BMS-247550
           when combined with gemcitabine in patients with advanced solid tumors.

        -  Determine the plasma pharmacokinetics of this regimen in this patient population.

        -  Assess, preliminarily, any antitumor activity of this regimen in this patient
           population.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of BMS-247550.

      Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 8 followed by BMS-247550 IV
      over 3 hours on day 8. The order of chemotherapy drug administration on day 8 is reversed
      during the second course only. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of BMS-247550 until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, 9 patients
      total are treated at the MTD.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed non-hematological cancer that is
             unresponsive to currently available therapies or for which there is no known
             effective treatment

          -  Clinical or radiological evidence of disease required

          -  No active brain metastases, including evidence of cerebral edema (by CT scan or MRI),
             progression from prior imaging study, any requirement for steroids, or clinical
             symptoms

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy

          -  At least 3 months

        Hematopoietic

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count greater than 100,000/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin at least 8.0 g/dL

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 mg/dL

          -  ALT and AST no greater than 2.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN) or 93 U/L

        Renal

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 times ULN or 2.0 mg/dL

        Other

          -  No documented hypersensitivity reaction to prior paclitaxel or other therapy
             containing Cremophor EL

          -  No grade 2 or greater pre-existing peripheral neuropathy

          -  No serious uncontrolled medical disorder or active infection that would preclude
             study therapy

          -  No dementia or altered mental status that would preclude informed consent

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior immunotherapy

        Chemotherapy

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy (6 weeks for nitrosoureas, mitomycin, or
             doxorubicin HCl liposome)

          -  Prior taxanes allowed

          -  Prior adjuvant or neoadjuvant chemotherapy allowed

          -  No more than 2 prior chemotherapy regimens in the metastatic setting

          -  No other concurrent chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No concurrent hormonal therapy except hormone-replacement therapy

          -  Concurrent medications to maintain castrate status for progressive hormone-refractory
             prostate cancer allowed

        Radiotherapy

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy

          -  No prior radiotherapy to more than 25% of bone marrow

          -  No concurrent radiotherapy

        Surgery

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior investigational agents

          -  No other concurrent experimental anticancer medications

          -  No concurrent alternative therapies (e.g., high-dose vitamins or herbal medicines)

          -  No concurrent combination antiretroviral therapy for HIV-positive patients
      
