TITLE:
Lidorestat (IDD 676) for the Treatment of Diabetic Neuropathy

CONDITION:
Diabetic Polyneuropathy

INTERVENTION:
Lidorestat (IDD 676)

SUMMARY:

      This clinical trial is to determine an effective dosage and to study the safety of an
      investigational drug -lidorestat (IDD-676)- which is intended to stop or slow the
      progression of diabetic peripheral neuropathy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Diabetic peripheral neuropathy is one of the most important and serious complications of
      diabetes. It can cause pain and loss of sensation, loss of mobility and lead to chronic
      wounds and amputations. Studies indicate 50% or more of people who have diabetes now have or
      will have significant neuropathy.

      Several currently marketed or investigational drugs are available to treat the painful
      symptoms of diabetic peripheral neuropathy, but there are no approved drugs that have been
      shown to prevent or slow the progression of the neuropathy itself.

      The current clinical trial is an early phase II study designed to investigate the safety of
      the investigational drug lidorestat (IDD-676) and to determine the effect of various dose
      levels on important biochemical processes in the pathology of diabetic neuropathy.

      Participants who enter and complete this study will, if the agent is successful, help in a
      very important way to bring an effective treatment from research laboratories to widespread
      availability for treatment. On the basis of the results of this study, large scale studies
      will be undertaken to support application for product registration and distribution in the
      U.S. and other countries throughout the world.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion:

          -  Clinical diagnosis of Type 1 or Type II diabetes with mild to moderate diabetic
             peripheral neuropathy.

          -  Healthy status except for diabetes

          -  Ability to make frequent clinic visits over a 7-month period.

          -  Willingness and ability to understand and sign consent form.

        Exclusion:

          -  Pregnancy or breast feeding

          -  Presence of uncontrolled hypertension

          -  History or presence of significant kidney or liver disease.
      
