TITLE:
The Role of Bacteria and Genetic Variations in Cystic Fibrosis

CONDITION:
Lung Diseases

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This study will examine 1) the role of hereditary factors in cystic fibrosis; i.e., the
      relationship of the disease to specific gene variations, and 2) the role of bacterial
      products involved in lung infections substances produced by bacteria may worsen the disease.

      Patients with cystic fibrosis who are being followed by the Medical College of Wisconsin or
      the University of Wisconsin-Madison are eligible for this study. Participants will have
      blood tests, pulmonary function tests, a sputum culture, and buccal swabbing (cotton
      swabbing of the inside of the cheek to collect cells for DNA study). In addition, their
      medical records will be reviewed for a history of lung infections and the results of various
      tests, including pulmonary function studies, chest X-rays and bacterial cultures. Blood
      samples collected previously at the Medical College of Wisconsin or the University of
      Wisconsin-Madison will also be analyzed for antibodies to bacteria.

      Although this is a one-time study, participants may be asked to return for repeated tests.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF) are susceptible to chronic bacterial colonization by
      Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which results in deterioration of lung function and, eventually,
      death. In this study, we hope to improve our understanding of the innate immune response to
      infection by strains of P. aeruginosa that express type III cytotoxins and to delineate
      better the role of modifier genes in disease progression.

      We will examine relationships between the patient's clinical course, the presence of
      antibodies to P. aeruginosa, and single nucleotide polymorphisms in suspected CF modifier
      genes.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 9 Years to 80 Years
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Patients with cystic fibrosis who have a defined mutation in CFTR (e.g., any of the known
        variants of the CFTR gene, such as the delta F508 allele) born in the state of Wisconsin
        since 1985 or otherwise followed by the cystic fibrosis centers at the Medical College of
        Wisconsin or University of Wisconsin-Madison.

        Patients will have been tested or will be tested for the CFTR gene under another protocol
        (96-H-0100).

        Patients may be colonized with P. aeruginosa or other organisms (e.g., Burkholderia
        cepacia).

        The age range of NIH participants in this study is from 9 to 80 years old.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        There are no exclusion criteria.
      
