TITLE:
Randomized Clinical Trial to Assess the Effectiveness of the GlucoWatch Biographer

CONDITION:
Diabetes Mellitus, Insulin-Dependent

INTERVENTION:
GlucoWatch G2 Biographer (GW2B)

SUMMARY:

      This study will evaluate the safety and effectiveness of a continuous glucose monitor in
      children with Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Intensive control of blood glucose levels has been shown to substantially prevent or delay
      complications of T1DM in adolescents and adults. The major limitation to implementation of
      intensive glycemic control is hypoglycemia. Younger children may be at increased risk for
      hypoglycemia, and the risk/benefit ratio of intensive glycemic control may be less favorable
      in this population. The Diabetes Research in Children Network (DirecNet) was established to
      evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of intensive glycemic control in children with
      T1DM.

      This study is designed to evaluate glycemic control, hypoglycemia, and quality of life when
      using a GlucoWatch G2TM Biographer (GW2B) versus standard care. Children in the study will
      use the GW2B in their home environment in order to assess if the GW2B can help to safely
      lower blood sugar levels (as measured by the glycosylated hemoglobin test), to learn how
      using the GW2B affects the daily lives of children with diabetes, and to find out if there
      are any drawbacks to using the GlucoWatch.

      As part of the study, participants in the intervention group will also use a second glucose
      monitoring device called the Continuous Glucose Monitoring System (CGMS). The CGMS will be
      inserted at baseline and at Months 3 and 6; it will be worn for three days after each visit.
      The CGMS will be used to measure changes in biochemical hypoglycemia.

      Participants at five participating centers will include a total of 200 children and
      adolescents with type 1 diabetes. Of the 200 children, 100 will be randomized to wear the
      GW2B and 100 will be randomized to usual care without GW2B. Each patient will be provided
      with a personal computer for weekly downloading of data and completion of questionnaires
      regarding hypoglycemia. Phone contacts will be made with the patients after Weeks 1, 2, and
      4, then every 4 weeks to review their diabetes management. At Months 3, 6, 9 and 12, a
      follow-up visit will be performed to measure HbA1c. The CGMS sensor will be inserted to
      assess hypoglycemia at baseline and Months 3 and 6. At the 6-month follow-up visit,
      psychosocial questionnaires will also be administered.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 7 Years to 17 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

          -  Clinical diagnosis of type 1 diabetes

          -  Insulin therapy (either a pump or at least 2 injections per day) for at least one
             year prior to study entry

          -  HbA1c between 7.0 and 11.0%

          -  Stable insulin regimen for the 2 months prior to study entry and no plans to switch
             the modality of insulin administration during the next 6 months (e.g., injection user
             switching to a pump, pump user switching to injections, or the addition of Lantus
             [Glargine] insulin)

          -  Agree to comply with study requirements, including the performance of at least 4
             fingerstick glucose checks a day using a home glucose monitor

          -  Comprehend written English

          -  Female participants must not intend to become pregnant during the next 6 months

          -  Plan to remain in the area of the clinical center during the next 6 months
      
