TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy Followed By Chemoradiotherapy, With or Without Surgery, in Treating Patients With Resectable Locally Advanced Cancer of the Esophagus or Gastroesophageal Junction

CONDITION:
Esophageal Cancer

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy such as paclitaxel, fluorouracil, and cisplatin use
      different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Radiation
      therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Combining chemotherapy with radiation
      therapy may kill more tumor cells

      PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well combination chemotherapy followed by
      chemoradiotherapy, with or without surgery, works in treating patients with resectable
      locally advanced cancer of the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the feasibility of treatment with paclitaxel, cisplatin, and fluorouracil
           followed by chemoradiotherapy and possible surgical salvage in patients with resectable
           locally advanced carcinoma of the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction.

        -  Determine the overall and disease-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the treatment-related toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the tolerance to surgical salvage in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the morbidity and mortality of surgical salvage in patients treated with this
           regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive fluorouracil (5-FU) IV continuously over 96 hours
           beginning on days 1 and 29; cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1-5 and 29-33; paclitaxel
           IV over 2 hours on days 1 and 29; and pegfilgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on days 6 and
           34 OR filgrastim (G-CSF) SC on days 6-15 and 34-42. Treatment continues in the absence
           of unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Chemoradiotherapy: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 57-61 and 5-FU IV
           continuously on days 57-61, 64-68, 71-75, 78-82, 85-89, and 92-96. Patients
           concurrently undergo external beam radiotherapy on days 57-61, 64-68, 71-75, 78-82,
           85-89, and 92-96.

      Patients with residual or recurrent esophageal disease 4-6 weeks after completion of
      chemoradiotherapy may undergo salvage esophagectomy.

      Patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 42 patients will be accrued for this study within 18 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 120 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed squamous cell carcinoma or adenocarcinoma of the esophagus
             or gastroesophageal junction

               -  Primary (non-recurrent) disease

               -  Amenable to resection

               -  Stage greater than T1, N0 by endoscopic ultrasound

               -  Must be entirely confined to the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction and
                  periesophageal soft tissue

               -  Tumor may not extend more than 2 cm into the stomach

          -  No multiple primary carcinomas of the esophagus

          -  No cervical esophageal carcinoma or tumors less than 5 cm from cricopharyngeus

          -  No evidence of disseminated cancer

               -  Suggestion of liver metastases by positron emission tomography must be proven
                  negative by biopsy or other imaging studies

               -  Palpable supraclavicular nodes must be negative for cancer by biopsy

          -  Bronchoscopy required for lesions less than 26 cm from the incisors to exclude
             tracheoesophageal fistula or invasion

          -  No celiac adenopathy greater than 2 cm

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  Zubrod 0-1

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Absolute granulocyte count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 150,000/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin at least 10 g/dL

        Hepatic

          -  Not specified

        Renal

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 mg/dL AND/OR

          -  Creatinine clearance at least 65 mL/min

          -  Calcium no greater than 11 mg/dL

        Cardiovascular

          -  No uncontrolled heart disease

          -  No uncontrolled hypertension

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  Able to comprehend study requirements and considered likely to comply with study
             parameters

          -  No other malignancy within the past 5 years except curable nonmelanoma skin cancer or
             carcinoma in situ of the cervix

          -  No uncontrolled diabetes

          -  No hypersensitivity to E. coli-derived products

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  More than 5 years since prior systemic chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  No prior chest or upper abdomen radiotherapy

        Surgery

          -  No prior esophageal or gastric surgery

        Other

          -  No concurrent photodynamic therapy

          -  No other concurrent investigational agents for esophageal carcinoma
      
