TITLE:
Nutritional Restriction and Activity Thermogenesis

CONDITION:
Obesity

INTERVENTION:
Exercise and behavior modification

SUMMARY:

      These studies will provide us with enormous insight regarding how obese patients adapt
      energetically during negative energy balance. We will gain fundamental information regarding
      the metabolic implications of combining food restriction with a walking program compatible
      to that advocated by statutory agencies. These studies will lead to improved understanding
      of the energetic adaptation that occurs during negative energy balance and how best to treat
      patients with obesity.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 25 Years to 55 Years
Criteria:

        Ninety sedentary subjects, aged 25-55, who live <10 miles from Rochester will be
        recruited. This age range has been selected to enable us to study individuals at the peak
        age-range of obesity and over-weight prevalence and to avoid issues of menopause. Subjects
        will not be eligible for consideration if they take two or more bouts of exercise/week or
        participate in sports for more than 2 hours/week. Subjects with predicted weight
        maintenance energy requirements of <2000 kcal/day will have been excluded at screening.
        This is because when we come to underfeeding by 1000 kcal/day, we want to avoid feeding
        any volunteer <1000 kcal/day, for safety & compliance reasons.

        (A) LEAN: 30 (15F,15M) lean subjects; BMI <25 kg/m2. Each lean subject will be
        individually matched for height (+3cm) and age (+3 years) to an obese subject so as to
        establish comparable groupings for body size. Subjects will have been weight-stable for
        six months (B) OBESE: 30 (15F,15M) obese subjects; BMI 30-35 kg/m2. Subjects will have
        been weight-stable for six months (C) POST-OBESE: 30 (15F,15M) patients will have had a
        previous BMI >30 kg/m2 and a weight loss sufficient to achieve a BMI of <26 kg/m2
        maintained for at least 2 months (with weight fluctuation during this period of <1 kg)
        (94). We will attempt to match these subjects to the obese subjects as described above.
      
