TITLE:
Provenge (Sipuleucel-T) Active Cellular Immunotherapy Treatment of Metastatic Prostate Cancer After Failing Hormone Therapy

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
Sipuleucel-T

SUMMARY:

      Provenge is an investigational product designed to activate a man's own antigen presenting
      cells, a type of immune cell, so that they can detect prostate cancer cells and initiate an
      immune response against them.

      Having completed Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials, Provenge is now at the Phase 3 level.
      One important Phase 3 trial of Provenge has been completed; the current trial is also a
      Phase 3 study.

      If you decide to participate and are eligible, you will be enrolled in the study and
      randomly assigned to receive either active product or placebo. There are two chances in
      three that you will receive Provenge. After receiving treatment, you will be monitored at
      regular intervals until the study endpoints are met. At the end of the trial, men who
      received placebo will have the opportunity to be treated with active product in another
      study.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The trial is being conducted at multiple study centers throughout the United States. The
      trial is a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Participants must meet specific
      eligibility criteria. Study personnel will determine your eligibility in a telephone
      interview and through routine medical tests (physical exam, blood tests, imaging scans) done
      at a study center.

      If you qualify for and decide to participate in the trial, you will have three product
      administrations over the course of one month.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        To qualify for this trial, you must have ALL of the following:

          -  Histologically documented adenocarcinoma of the prostate

          -  Cancer that has progressed while on adequate hormone therapy. This state of the
             disease is androgen independent prostate cancer (AIPC).

          -  Cancer that has spread outside the prostate (metastatic) to lymph nodes or bone.
             Please note that if your cancer has spread to organs (e.g., liver, lung, brain), you
             are not eligible for the study.

          -  The absence of or minimal current cancer-related pain

        Please note that there are additional eligibility criteria. The study center will
        determine if you meet all of the criteria.

        Study personnel will explain the trial in detail and answer any questions you may have if
        you do qualify for the study. You can then decide whether or not you wish to participate.
        If you do not qualify for the trial, study personnel will explain the reasons.
      
