TITLE:
Valproate Response in Aggressive Autistic Adolescents

CONDITION:
Autism

INTERVENTION:
Valproate

SUMMARY:

      This study will examine the effect of valproate, a medication used to treat seizures and
      bipolar disorder, on aggressive behavior in children and adolescents with autism.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Autism is a complex biological disorder that generally lasts throughout a persons life. It
      starts before age three and causes delays or problems with many different ways in which a
      person develops or grows. Some people with autism become very aggressive and can hurt others
      or themselves. This study will test the hypothesis that aggressive autistic adolescents will
      show a significantly greater response to valproate maintained at blood levels of 75-100
      mcg/ml than to placebo. The study will also assess the safety of valproate in autistic
      adolescents. This represents the first double-blind study of valproate in mentally
      retarded/developmentally delayed populations.

      Participants in this study will undergo DSM-IV evaluation, the Autism Diagnostic
      Interview-Revised and Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule, and baseline blood tests.
      After baseline screening, all participants will be given a placebo for 1 week. Participants
      will then be randomized to receive either valproate or placebo for 8 weeks. Dosage
      adjustment according to blood levels drawn at the end of weeks 2 and 4 will be arranged with
      parents by a child psychiatrist without breaking the blind. The Aberrant Behavior
      Check-list-Community (ABC-C) irritability subscale will be the primary measure; the Overt
      Aggression Scale (OAS), ABC-C hyperactivity subscale, Clinical Global Impressions (CGI)
      problem severity, Self-Injurious Behavior Questionnaire (SIB-Q), and a valproate side
      effects checklist will be secondary measures.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 6 Years to 21 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

          -  Autism

          -  Lives in the Kansas City area

        Exclusion Criteria

          -  Psychoactive maintenance medication

          -  Degenerative central nervous system disorder

          -  Unstable medical illness

          -  Seizures in the 6 months prior to study entry

          -  History of valproate sensitivity or previous liver disease

          -  History of ovarian cysts

          -  Low platelet count or raised liver transaminases
      
