TITLE:
Colpopexy and Urinary Reduction Efforts (CARE) Protocol

CONDITION:
Urinary Incontinence, Stress

INTERVENTION:
Burch urethropexy at time of sacrocolpopexy

SUMMARY:

      Pelvic organ prolapse occurs when the muscles holding pelvic organs (e.g., the uterus or
      bladder) weaken and the organs fall or slide down into the vagina. Pelvic organ prolapse can
      be corrected with surgery. However, women who have this surgery may develop urinary
      incontinence. This study will determine how doctors can predict this problem and whether an
      additional surgical procedure at the time of prolapse surgery can prevent the development of
      urinary incontinence.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Many women have surgery for pelvic organ prolapse (cystocele, uterine prolapse, rectocele).
      Women with advanced pelvic organ prolapse may experience stress urinary incontinence
      following surgery to repair the prolapse. Development of incontinence is unpredictable. This
      study will determine which, if any, clinical tests are useful for predicting post-operative
      urinary incontinence. The study will also determine if a Burch urethropexy should be
      performed routinely or selectively at the time of sacrocolpopexy in continent women.

      Women with pelvic organ prolapse who are scheduled for prolapse repair will be randomized to
      a Burch urethropexy group or to a control group. Women in the Burch group will undergo
      urethropexy at the time of prolapse repair. Assessments will include a quality of life
      telephone interview, urodynamic testing, and physical examination. Follow-up evaluations
      occur at 6 weeks, 3 months, and 1 and 2 years following surgery. Post-operative phone
      interviews will occur at 3 months, 6 months, and 1 and 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

          1. Eligibility for primary procedure (sacrocolpopexy)

          2. Eligibility for secondary procedure (Burch colposuspension)

          3. Stage II-IV anterior vaginal prolapse, defined as POP-Q Point Aa at -1, 0, +1, +2, or
             +3 cm.

          4. Negative stress incontinence screen

          5. Negative stress incontinence screen (MESA questionnaire)

        Exclusion Criteria

          1. Contraindication for sacrocolpopexy or Burch colposuspension.

               -  Anatomic contraindication for Burch colposuspension (i.e., Point Aa fixed at -2
                  or -3 cm).

               -  Surgeon judgment that a contraindication to Burch colposuspension exists.

          2. Anticipated geographic relocation within the first three months after surgery (e.g.,
             within approximately 6 months of screening).

          3. Inability to provide informed consent or to complete testing or data collection.

          4. Currently pregnant.
      
