TITLE:
Atypical Neuroleptic Drugs in People With Mental Retardation/Developmental Delay

CONDITION:
Mental Retardation

INTERVENTION:
risperidone

SUMMARY:

      Psychiatric drugs are often used to treat behavioral symptoms of mental
      retardation/developmental delay (MR/DD). These drugs can cause serious side effects. Newer
      drugs may have decreased side effects. This study will compare new and old drugs used to
      treat behavioral symptoms in people with MR/DD.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Atypical neuroleptics have fewer extrapyramidal and behavioral side effects than typical
      neuroleptics. Atypical neuroleptics may also improve social and cognitive functioning. This
      improvement may be due to reductions in the negative symptoms that are part of the psychosis
      and psychiatric syndromes or to the improved side effect profile. This study will examine
      the effects of the atypical neuroleptic drugs risperidone, clozapine, and olanzapine on
      learning, memory, and social behavior in individuals with MR/DD. A substudy will expand the
      study to evaluate ecobehavioral measures. The goal of these studies is to assess the
      behavioral selectivity of atypical neuroleptics by measuring cognitive and social
      functioning along with targeted aberrant behaviors in individuals under placebo and
      different doses of drug.

      Fifty participants will be randomized to receive risperidone, clozapine, olanzapine, or
      placebo. Twenty-five of the participants will be drawn from a group receiving typical
      neuroleptics at the onset of the study. The efficacy of atypical neuroleptics in reducing
      destructive, aggressive, and stereotypic behaviors in persons with mental retardation will
      be assessed.

      Learning and memory will be measured using laboratory operant tasks. Social and
      environmental interactions, as well as primary target behaviors, will be directly measured
      by trained observers. The frequency of specific aberrant behaviors will be determined, along
      with the conditional probabilities that certain environmental events proceed and follow
      these behaviors. In the substudy, categories of aberrant behavior will be used to provide
      information relevant to environmental variables maintaining aberrant behavior; this
      categorization will improve the determinations of pharmacologic efficacy and will provide a
      better understanding of the relationship between atypical neuroleptics and environmentally
      maintained aberrant behavior.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 6 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

          -  Primary diagnosis of mental retardation (IQ < 70)

          -  Scheduled for medication reductions from psychotropic drugs and subsequent placement
             on risperidone

          -  Severe self-injury, aggression, property destruction, or stereotypic behavior for 6
             months prior to study entry

          -  No seizures, or seizures under control of medication for previous 2 years

        Additional Inclusion Criteria for Substudy

          -  Participants in the primary study who are available for 2 hour weekly or bi-weekly
             clinic visits and are able to have observers in their home, school, and/or work
             environment

        Exclusion Criteria

          -  Degenerative disease that may affect motor or cognitive functioning

          -  Progressive disease of an organ system

          -  Advanced age that may produce deteriorating cognitive or motor functioning

          -  Multiple sensory or motor disabilities that will interfere with seeing the stimuli
             and responding to the computer
      
