TITLE:
Long-Term Survival With HIV: Psychological and Behavioral Factors Associated With the Transition From Adolescence to Young Adulthood

CONDITION:
HIV Infection

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This study will examine the emotional and behavioral aspects of long-term survival of
      HIV/AIDS among adolescents and young adults with HIV infection.

      HIV-infected individuals between 13 and 23 years of age may be eligible for this study. They
      must be aware of their HIV diagnosis, have been infected for at least 13 years and have been
      on an active NIH protocol during the past 5 years.

      In addition to the usual stresses of growing up, children with HIV infection may have spent
      much of their time in hospitals and may have lost parents, friends and other loved ones.
      This study will explore psychological aspects of growing up with HIV, including self esteem,
      possible risk behaviors, how disclosure to others changes over time, the commonness of
      anxiety and depression, and the impact that losses have had on the adolescents' emotional
      health. To gather this information, participants will be interviewed and asked to fill out a
      set of forms. Caregivers will also fill out forms.

      Patients who are not currently on an active NIH protocol will have the option of having a
      physical examination and routine blood work. The results will be sent to their home care
      provider.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Children and adolescents with HIV/AIDS are living well beyond the life expectancy that was
      projected for them in the past. As the number of survivors of vertically or transfusion
      associated pediatric HIV disease increases, attention to the psychosocial adjustment of
      these adolescents and young adults becomes increasingly important. Studies in the late 1990s
      described child and adolescent survivors as generally well adjusted, though difficulties
      become more apparent as the child approached the age of 18. Nothing is known about these HIV
      positive youngsters as they enter late adolescence and young adulthood. This study will
      examine psychosocial factors associated with long-term survival of HIV/AIDS, including the
      prevalence of psychiatric diagnoses, risk behaviors, evaluation of self competence, and the
      impact that multiple losses has on the adolescents' emotional well-being. In addition, data
      will be collected from the primary caregivers on the prevalence of parenting stress compared
      to national norms. Subjects will include children who have been infected (either perinatally
      or through transfusion) for at least eight years and who are aware of their diagnosis.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION CRITERIA

        HIV-infected adolescents 13-24 years of age with documented HIV infection for greater than
        or equal to 13 years.

        On active protocol at NIH during the past 5 years.

        Willingness to sign informed consent.

        Ability to understand and read English.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA

        Presence of psychotic symptoms.

        Cognitive impairment or full scale IQ less than or equal to 75.

        Not aware of HIV diagnosis.
      
