TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy Plus Low-Dose Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage I or Stage IIA Hodgkin's Lymphoma

CONDITION:
Lymphoma, Hodgkin Disease

INTERVENTION:
bleomycin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor
      cells. Combining chemotherapy with radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving combination chemotherapy together
      with low-dose radiation therapy works in treating patients with stage I or stage IIA
      Hodgkin's lymphoma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Evaluate the freedom from progression in patients with stage I or IIA Hodgkin's
           lymphoma with a favorable prognosis treated with Stanford V-C chemotherapy comprising
           cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vinblastine, prednisone, vincristine, bleomycin, and
           etoposide with low-dose radiotherapy.

        -  Minimize the early and late effects of treatment in these patients by avoiding staging
           laparotomy and its consequences, limiting cumulative doses of chemotherapy, and
           reducing the dose of radiotherapy to moderately bulky sites of disease.

        -  Assess early and late treatment-related toxicity, freedom from second disease
           progression, and overall survival at 5 and 10 years in patients treated with this
           regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive Stanford V-C chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes
      weekly on weeks 1 and 5; doxorubicin IV and vinblastine IV over 5 minutes once weekly on
      weeks 1, 3, 5, and 7; oral prednisone every other day on weeks 1-8; vincristine IV and
      bleomycin IV over 5 minutes once weekly on weeks 2, 4, 6, and 8; and etoposide IV over 60
      minutes on days 1 and 2 of weeks 3 and 7. Beginning 2-3 weeks after completion of
      chemotherapy, patients undergo low-dose radiotherapy 5 days a week for approximately 3
      weeks.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 80 patients will be accrued for this study within 5 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of stage I or IIA Hodgkin's lymphoma

               -  Previously untreated disease

               -  Eligible subtypes:

                    1. Nodular sclerosis

                    2. Mixed cellularity

                    3. Classical, not otherwise specified

          -  No lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin's lymphoma

          -  No mediastinal mass that is one-third or more of the maximum intrathoracic diameter
             on a standing posterior chest x-ray

          -  No lymph node mass more than 10 cm in greatest transaxial diameter

          -  No more than 1 extranodal site of disease

          -  No constitutional (B) symptoms present at diagnosis

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 to 70

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Granulocyte count at least 2,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 150,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 2.5 mg/dL

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2 mg/dL

        Cardiovascular:

          -  Ejection fraction at least 50% for patients over age 50 or with a history of cardiac
             disease

        Other:

          -  HIV negative

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No other prior or concurrent malignancy within the past 5 years except basal cell
             skin cancer

          -  No other medical contraindication to study therapy

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  No prior biologic therapy

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  No prior endocrine therapy

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No prior radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No other concurrent investigational drugs

          -  No other concurrent antineoplastic therapy
      
