TITLE:
Interleukin-12 and Interferon Alfa in Treating Patients With Metastatic Malignant Melanoma

CONDITION:
Recurrent Melanoma

INTERVENTION:
recombinant interleukin-12

SUMMARY:

      Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining interleukin-12 and interferon alfa in
      treating patients who have metastatic malignant melanoma. Interleukin-12 may kill tumor
      cells by stopping blood flow to the tumor and by stimulating a person's white blood cells to
      kill cancer cells. Interferon alfa may interfere with the growth of the cancer cells.
      Combining interleukin-12 and interferon alfa may kill more tumor cells.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the clinical response rates in patients with metastatic malignant melanoma
      treated with rhIL-12 and interferon alfa-2b.

      II. To estimate the progression-free survival in patients with metastatic malignant melanoma
      treated with rhIL-12 and interferon alfa-2b.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure serum levels of interferon-gamma. II. To measure levels of JAK-STAT signaling
      intermediates in patient PBMCs and tumor samples.

      III. To analyze interferon-alpha-induced STAT signaling in patient PBMCs. IV. To determine
      the expression of IFN-regulated genes in patient PBMCs and tumor tissues.

      V. To determine the pattern of gene expression induced by treatment with IL-12 and
      interferon-alpha using DNA microarray techniques in patient PBMCs.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive interleukin-12 IV over 5-15 seconds on day 1 and interferon alfa
      subcutaneously on days 2-6. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks in the absence of unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients are reassessed after 6 courses. Patients with a complete response receive
      2 additional courses. Patients with a partial response or stable disease continue treatment
      in the absence of disease progression.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 1 year.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Histological or cytological diagnosis of cutaneous melanoma and clinical evidence of
             distant, metastatic, non-resectable regional lymphatic, or extensive in transit
             recurrent disease

          -  Patients must have measurable disease; measurable disease is defined as the presence
             of at least one measurable lesion; if the measurable disease is restricted to a
             solitary lesion, its neoplastic nature should be confirmed by cytology/histology;
             measurable lesions are defined as lesions that can be accurately measured in at least
             one dimension with the longest diameter >= 20 mm using conventional techniques or >=
             10 mm with spiral CT scan

               -  Lesions that are considered intrinsically non-measurable include the following:

                    -  Bone lesions;

                    -  Leptomeningeal disease;

                    -  Ascites;

                    -  Pleural/pericardial effusion;

                    -  Inflammatory breast disease;

                    -  Lymphangitis cutis/pulmonis;

                    -  Abdominal masses that are not confirmed and followed by imaging techniques;

                    -  Lytic lesions;

                    -  Lesions that are situated in a previously irradiated area

          -  No history of peripheral neuropathy, brain metastases or other central nervous system
             disease

          -  No history of/active autoimmune disease, hemolytic anemia or concurrent requirement
             for corticosteroids, including topical or inhaled

          -  No hepatitis BSAg, known HIV disease or other major active illness; patients with
             risk factors for HIV should be tested; patients with these illnesses are more likely
             to experience significant side effects from the study treatment

          -  No history of severe peptic ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding unless there
             is objective evidence that the condition is inactive or resolved

          -  No uncontrolled or severe cardiovascular disease, diabetes, pulmonary disease, or
             infection

          -  No chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or anti-hormonal therapy within three weeks prior to
             the initiation of therapy on this study

          -  No prior therapy with IL-12

          -  No prior therapy with IFN-alpha for metastatic disease (e.g., biochemotherapy); prior
             adjuvant therapy with IFN-a is acceptable as long as the patient remained
             disease-free for 12 months or longer following the last IFN-a treatment

          -  No prior cytokine therapy for metastatic disease (e.g., high-dose IL-2)

          -  No more than one prior chemotherapy regimen

          -  CTC (ECOG) performance status 0-1

          -  Non-pregnant, non-nursing; treatment under this protocol would expose an unborn child
             to significant risks; women and men of reproductive potential should agree to use an
             effective means of birth control; women of child-bearing age will undergo pregnancy
             testing

          -  ANC >= 1500/L

          -  Platelets >= 100,000/L

          -  Hemoglobin > 9 g/dL (may be post transfusion or may receive EPO)

          -  U-HCG or Serum HCG Negative (if patient of child-bearing potential)
      
