TITLE:
Irinotecan in Treating Aging Patients With Solid Tumors

CONDITION:
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific

INTERVENTION:
irinotecan hydrochloride

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Aging may affect the way these drugs work.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to determine the relationship between aging and the effectiveness of
      irinotecan in treating patients who have solid tumors.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine whether there is a relationship between the pharmacokinetic characteristics
           of irinotecan and aging in patients with non-hematologic malignancies.

        -  Determine whether there is a relationship between the toxic effects of this drug and
           aging in these patients.

        -  Determine whether the relationship between genotype (UGT1A1, CYP3A, and other relevant
           genes) and phenotype (pharmacokinetics, toxicity) is affected by aging in these
           patients treated with this drug.

        -  Analyze data collected on the co-morbid conditions and concurrent medications in these
           patients treated with this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age (18 to 55 vs
      70 and over).

      Patients receive irinotecan IV over 90 minutes once weekly for 4 weeks. Treatment continues
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 140 patients (70 per stratum) will be accrued for this study
      within 3.5 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed non-hematologic malignancy

          -  Brain metastases or primary brain tumors are eligible provided patient is not
             receiving steroids or antiepileptic medications

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 to 55 or 70 and over

        Performance status:

          -  CTC 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Granulocyte count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  SGOT no greater than ULN

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than ULN

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy (6 weeks for nitrosourea)

          -  No more than 1 prior chemotherapy regimen for metastatic disease (no limit if
             administered in the adjuvant setting)

          -  No prior camptothecin

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Radiotherapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy

          -  No concurrent radiotherapy, including for palliation

        Surgery:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior major surgery
      
