TITLE:
Exisulind in Preventing Polyps in Patients With Familial Adenomatous Polyposis

CONDITION:
Colorectal Cancer

INTERVENTION:
exisulind

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Exisulind may be effective in preventing the development and growth of polyps in
      patients who have familial adenomatous polyposis.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase II/III trial to determine the effectiveness of exisulind in
      preventing the development and growth of polyps in patients who have familial adenomatous
      polyposis.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the ability of exisulind to inhibit growth and development of duodenal
           adenomas in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis.

        -  Determine the effect on apoptosis in polyp vs mucosal tissue in these patients when
           treated with this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Patients are
      randomized to one of two treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral exisulind 4 times daily.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo 4 times daily. Treatment continues for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100 patients (50 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  One of the following diagnosis:

               -  Diagnosis of familial adenomatous polyposis

                    -  Prior total or subtotal colectomy

               -  Attenuated adenomatous polyposis coli

                    -  May have colon intact

          -  10-40 duodenal polyps from second portion to 10 cm distal to papilla of Vater

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 to 80

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Hemoglobin at least 10 g/dL

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

          -  No active hematologic disease

        Hepatic:

          -  AST and ALT less than 1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  Alkaline phosphatase less than 1.5 times ULN

          -  No active hepatic disease

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine less than 1.5 mg/dL

          -  No active renal disease

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No active peptic ulcer disease

          -  No serious underlying medical or psychiatric illness that would preclude completion
             of the study or limit survival

          -  No prisoners or institutionalized patients

          -  No known allergy to sulindac or related compounds

          -  No active internal malignancy within the past 5 years

          -  No alcohol or drug abuse within the past 5 years

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Other:

          -  No prior non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or salicylates more than 10
             days a month for the past 3 months

          -  No concurrent NSAIDs (e.g., mesalamine, olsalazine, azodisalicylate, salsalate,
             sulfasalazine)

          -  Aspirin for cardiac reasons allowed (81 mg/day or 325 mg twice/week)
      
