TITLE:
Fenretinide in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Ovarian Epithelial or Primary Peritoneal Cancer

CONDITION:
Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer

INTERVENTION:
fenretinide

SUMMARY:

      Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of fenretinide in treating patients who have
      recurrent or metastatic ovarian epithelial or primary peritoneal cancer. Drugs used in
      chemotherapy, such as fenretinide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells,
      either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the efficacy of fenretinide (4-HPR) in patients with recurrent ovarian cancer
      or primary peritoneal carcinoma.

      II. To assess the toxicity of this agent in this patient population. III. To evaluate
      molecular changes in normal and tumor cells induced by 4-HPR by studying: (a) the analysis
      of ceramide and glucosyleceramide levels before and after therapy, (b) intracellular levels
      of 4-HPR and 4-MPR, and (c) determinants of apoptosis (p53, p21, bcl-2, bax and terminal
      deoxynucleotidyl transferase [TdT] assay) in baseline tumor specimens, serial serum and
      tumor biopsy specimens where available, and surrogate in-vitro studies.

      IV. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of fenretinide. V. To further investigate the
      antiangiogenesis effects of fenretinide in in-vitro assays using ovarian cancer cell lines
      and in vascular growth factor (VEGF, TGFb) plasma levels in patients.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive oral fenretinide twice daily on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with histologically confirmed recurrent or metastatic epithelial ovarian
             cancer or primary peritoneal carcinoma

          -  Unidimensionally measurable disease; indicator lesions must not have been irradiated
             unless they have grown following radiation therapy

          -  SWOG performance status 0-2

          -  Patients must have received a platinum and paclitaxel containing regimen

          -  Patients are allowed to receive =< 2 prior chemotherapy regimens for recurrent
             disease; patients who are rechallenged with the same chemotherapy regimen are
             considered to have had that regimen only once

          -  Projected life expectancy must be at least 3 months

          -  Signed informed consent

          -  Absolute neutrophil count >= 1500/ul

          -  Platelet count >= 100,000 ul

          -  Bilirubin =< 2 times the institutional limit of normal

          -  ALT or AST =< 3 times the upper limit of normal

          -  Measured or calculated creatinine clearance >= 60 ml/min

          -  Fasting triglycerides =< 1 time the upper limit of normal; triglycerides may be
             "normalized" prior to study entry with use of an antilipemic agent (atorvastatin,
             fenofibrate)

          -  Patients must have recovered from acute toxicities from surgery, radiation or
             chemotherapy; at least 3 weeks will have elapsed since any prior therapy directed at
             the malignant tumor

          -  Patients of childbearing potential must agree to use an approved method of birth
             control

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Prior fenretinide is not allowed; prior 13-cis, 9-cis or all-transretinoic acid are
             allowed

          -  Patients with a second malignancy within the last 5 years are not allowed, except for
             those with non-melanomatous skin cancer and carcinoma-in-situ of the cervix; all
             prior invasive malignancies must be in complete remission

          -  The use of concomitant antioxidants, such as vitamin C or E, is not allowed

          -  Patients with concurrent medical, psychological or social conditions of such severity
             that the investigator deems it unwise to enter the patient on protocol

          -  Untreated or symptomatic brain metastases

          -  Pregnant or nursing women
      
