TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy Plus Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Advanced Pancreatic Cancer

CONDITION:
Pancreatic Cancer

INTERVENTION:
cisplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining radiation therapy with chemotherapy may kill more
      tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy plus
      radiation therapy in treating patients who have locally advanced pancreatic cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the efficacy of gemcitabine, cisplatin, and radiotherapy, in terms of 1-year
           survival, in patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the quality of life of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily five days a week for 5.5 weeks. Patients receive
      gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes followed by cisplatin IV over 1 hour twice a week for the
      first 3 weeks of radiotherapy. Beginning 4 weeks after the completion of radiotherapy,
      patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for a total of 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at completion of radiotherapy, at completion of
      chemotherapy, and 3 months after completion of therapy.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20-47 patients will be accrued for this study within 12-28
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 120 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed unresectable adenocarcinoma of the pancreas

          -  No cystadenocarcinoma of the pancreas or pancreatic tumors of neuroendocrine origin

          -  Prior subtotal resection or gross residual disease

               -  No microscopic residual disease only

          -  No metastatic disease outside of planned study radiotherapy field

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0-1

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 2 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  AST no greater than 3 times ULN

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 times ULN

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  Able to maintain adequate oral nutrition

          -  No significant infection

          -  No other medical condition that would preclude study

          -  No other malignancy within the past 5 years except non-melanoma skin cancer

          -  No significant nausea or vomiting

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  No prior or concurrent biologic therapy

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior chemotherapy

          -  No other concurrent chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No prior radiotherapy that would overlap planned study radiotherapy fields

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 21 days since prior laparotomy
      
