TITLE:
Radiofrequency Ablation in Treating Patients With Bone Metastases

CONDITION:
Metastatic Cancer

INTERVENTION:
pain therapy

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Radiofrequency ablation may be effective in decreasing pain from bone metastases.

      PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of radiofrequency ablation in
      decreasing pain in patients who have bone metastases.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the side effects of radiofrequency ablation in patients with bone metastases.

        -  Determine the effect of this regimen on pain in these patients.

        -  Determine the effect of this regimen on mood in these patients.

        -  Determine the effects of narcotic usage in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the relationship between laboratory and imaging features of this treatment
           and the effects of the treatment in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients undergo percutaneous CT-guided radiofrequency ablation directly to the metastatic
      lesion over approximately 12 minutes.

      Pain and mood are assessed at baseline, daily for 14 days after treatment, and at 1 and 3
      months after treatment.

      Patients are followed at 1 week and then at 1 and 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 75 patients will be accrued for this study within 12.5
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 21 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed malignant disease with a bone lesion that
             appears to be metastatic disease by clinical and/or imaging techniques

          -  Persistent intractable pain from a solitary site of bone metastases (greater than 5
             on pain scale of 0-10)

          -  Bone metastasis must be amenable to radiofrequency ablation using a percutaneous
             CT-guided approach

          -  Bone metastasis must be no greater than 8 cm

          -  No tumor mass in contact with hollow viscera

          -  No primary musculoskeletal malignancies, lymphoma, or leukemia

          -  No spinal metastases that do not have an intact cortex between the mass and the
             spinal canal and exiting nerve roots

          -  No tumor involving weight-bearing long bone of lower extremity or impending fracture

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  21 and over

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Platelet count at least 70,000/mm^3

          -  No uncontrolled coagulopathy or bleeding diathesis that cannot be corrected with
             fresh frozen plasma and platelets

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No pacemaker

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  At least 14 days since prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease

          -  No concurrent systemic chemotherapy for metastatic disease during and for 14 days
             after study therapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  At least 30 days since prior radioisotopes for metastatic disease

          -  No concurrent systemic radioisotopes for metastatic disease

        Surgery:

          -  No surgical stabilization of tumor site with metallic hardware

        Other:

          -  Prior aspirin, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications, antiplatelet medications,
             or warfarin must be discontinued for an appropriate period of time prior to study
             based on the drug's half-life and known antiplatelet activity (e.g., 7 days for
             aspirin and 24 hours for ibuprofen)

          -  At least 24 hours since prior low molecular weight heparin
      
