TITLE:
Analysis of Molecular Markers of Drug Resistance in Tumor Biopsies From Previously Untreated Aggressive Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma

CONDITION:
Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      Although the cause(s) of clinical drug resistance in non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) are
      unknown, in vitro studies suggest that abnormalities of the cell cycle and mechanisms of
      apoptosis may play an important role. Clinical studies have now shown that p53, bcl-2 and
      tumor proliferation all have significant effects on clinical drug resistance. To further
      investigate the role of genes that control the cell cycle and apoptosis, we wish to
      correlate the expression of multiple molecular targets [including but not restricted to
      bcl-2, BAX, bcl-6, MIB-1, p53, p21, p27, p16, cyclin D(1), cyclin A, cyclin E, mdm-2, cpp
      32, mcl-1, EBER-1, ALK, and a panel of B, T and other cell lineage markers], involving these
      pathways, with clinical outcome following treatment with combination chemotherapy. All
      clinical data and tissue samples for this study will come from patients who have been
      previously enrolled on two protocols for the initial treatment of aggressive lymphomas. No
      new patients will be enrolled for this study.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Although the cause(s) of clinical drug resistance in non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) are
      unknown, in vitro studies suggest that abnormalities of the cell cycle and mechanisms of
      apoptosis may play an important role. Clinical studies have now shown that p53, bcl-2 and
      tumor proliferation all have significant effects on clinical drug resistance. To further
      investigate the role of genes that control the cell cycle and apoptosis, we wish to
      correlate the expression of multiple molecular targets using immunohistochemistry and cDNA
      microarray expression profiling (including but not restricted to bcl-2, BAX, bcl-6, MIB-1,
      p53, p21, p27, p16, cyclin D1, cyclin A, cyclin E, mdm-2, cpp 32, mcl-1, EBER-1, ALK, and a
      panel of B, T and other cell lineage markers), involving these pathways, with clinical
      outcome following treatment with combination chemotherapy. All clinical data and tissue
      samples for this study will come from patients who have been previously enrolled on two
      protocols for the initial treatment of aggressive lymphomas. No new patients will be
      enrolled for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Prior enrollment on the clinical trial of ProMACE-CytaBOM versus ProMACE-MOPP (81-C-0166)
        or Short Course ProMACE-CytaBOM (87-C-0180) for the treatment of previously untreated
        aggressive lymphomas.

        Informed consent for participation in the above clinical trials.

        Adequate biopsy material from initial biopsy and/or biopsies at relapse of disease.
      
