TITLE:
Hypnosis in Treating Hot Flashes in Breast Cancer Survivors

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
hot flashes attenuation

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Hypnosis may be effective in decreasing hot flashes in breast cancer survivors.

      PURPOSE: This randomized clinical trial is studying how well hypnosis works in treating hot
      flashes in breast cancer survivors.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the efficacy of hypnosis in controlling hot flashes in women who are breast
           cancer survivors.

        -  Determine the extent to which hypnotizability is related to the success of the
           hypnotherapy intervention.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled study. Patients are stratified according to age,
      gender, race, and educational background. All patients complete a Hot Flash Daily Diary to
      record frequency and severity of hot flashes for 1 week. Patients are then randomized to 1
      of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (hypnotherapy): Patients undergo hypnotherapy once a week for 5 weeks. Patients
           complete the Hot Flash-Related Daily Interference Scale, the Hospital Depression and
           Anxiety Sub-scale, the CES Depression Scale, and the MOS-Sleep and Sexual Function
           Scales in week 5 after the last hypnotherapy intervention. Patients also complete
           another Hot Flash Daily Diary for 1 week in week 6 and are administered the Stanford
           Hypnotic Clinical Scale in week 7.

        -  Arm II (control): Patients receive no contact for 4 weeks. Patients complete the
           questionnaires as in arm I in week 5. Patients also complete another Hot Flash Daily
           Diary for 1 week in week 6 and are administered the Stanford Hypnotic Clinical Scale in
           week 7.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  History of primary breast cancer

               -  No evidence of detectable disease

          -  At least 14 hot flashes per week for  1 month by self-reporting

          -  Hormone receptor status not specified

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Female

          -  Life expectancy > 6 months

          -  Menopausal status not specified

          -  Outpatient status

          -  No medical or psychiatric condition that would preclude study participation

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

          -  Concurrent antihormonal agents for breast cancer (e.g., tamoxifen or raloxifene)
             allowed provided the patient has been on them for  1 month

          -  No other concurrent hormonal therapy

          -  No other putative therapies for hot flashes  1 month prior to study entry

               -  Concurrent vitamin E allowed

          -  No other concurrent treatment for hot flashes

          -  No concurrent cytotoxic chemotherapy

          -  Not concurrently using hypnosis for any reason
      
