TITLE:
Study of NS-9 in Patients With Liver Metastases

CONDITION:
Liver Neoplasms

INTERVENTION:
NS-9 [Poly I: Poly C]

SUMMARY:

      This study is to investigate the safety of NS-9 and to see how well it is tolerated in
      patients with cancer that has metastasized (spread) to the liver from another primary tumor.
      NS-9 is a drug developed to go to the liver to cause cell death specifically in tumor cells.
      This study is also set up to determine the best dose to use.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This study requires subjects to undergo 2 treatment cycles of NS-9. Each cycle consists of
      once daily, 1-hour I.V. infusions of the drug for 5 days followed by a 23-day rest period.
      During the rest period, subjects are seen at the clinic once weekly for evaluation. Subjects
      having favorable or stable results after 2 cycles may continue to receive NS-9 in the
      extension phase of the study until the disease progresses or until they get a side effect
      that prevents them from continuing with therapy.

      After each two cycles, if appropriate, the liver tumor will be measured by radiologic
      imaging to compare it to its pre-treatment size.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male and female at least 18 years of age.

          -  Patients with liver metastases from various primary cancers for which no other
             curative treatment options exist.

          -  At least one measurable lesion (by CT or MRI)

          -  Life expectancy > 3 months

          -  Child-bearing potential women must have a negative serum pregnancy test

          -  ECOG performance status: 0-1

          -  Fully recovered from any previous cancer therapy or infection (at least 4 weeks from
             radiation or chemotherapy, at least 3 weeks from a major surgical procedure and at
             least 2 weeks from an exploration/biopsy)

          -  Discontinued from any other investigational drug for at least 30 days

          -  Serum calcium <11 mg/dL

          -  Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) 1,500/mm3, without growth factor support

          -  Hemoglobin 9.0 g/dL

          -  Platelet count 100,000/mm3

          -  Serum creatinine 1.5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  Bilirubin 1.5 times ULN

          -  ALT and AST 3 times ULN

          -  Amylase and lipase  ULN

          -  PT and PTT < 1.5 times ULN

          -  ECG with no acute abnormalities

          -  Afebrile (37.5C or 99.5F)

          -  Willingness and ability to comply with all study requirements

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Subject is mentally or legally incapacitated, or has significant emotional or
             psychiatric problems.

          -  Concomitant primary malignant and/or non-malignant liver disease (primary liver
             cancer, acute or chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, alcoholic liver disease).

          -  History of pancreatic disease (e.g., pancreatitis, pancreatic malignancy).

          -  New York Heart Association classification Class III or IV

          -  Uncontrolled intercurrent illnesses including but not limited to: hypertension,
             seizure disorder, renal, gastrointestinal, or hematological diseases.

          -  Clinically relevant systemic disease (other than the malignancy and
             malignancy-related hepatic dysfunction) making implementation of the protocol or
             interpretation of the study results difficult.

          -  Pregnant or nursing, or unwilling to or will not agree to use an effective and
             reliable contraceptive measure.

          -  Subject has received radiation to >25% of the total bone marrow.

          -  Subject has a history of any other illness that would preclude study participation.

          -  Subject has brain metastases.

          -  Subject has allergy to egg yolk.

          -  Subject receiving low-molecular weight heparin for treatment of a blood coagulation
             disorder (e.g., deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism).
      
