TITLE:
Evaluating Immune Function Tests in People With HIV

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      Some people's immune systems are able to control HIV infection without anti-HIV drugs. Other
      people with HIV must take drugs to prevent the virus from destroying their immune systems.
      There are many different laboratory tests that measure immune function in people with HIV.
      This study will compare some of these tests to see if they consistently measure differences
      between people who control the HIV without anti-HIV drugs and those who must take drugs.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The efficiency of the immune response to HIV antigens is the critical feature that allows
      some individuals with chronic HIV infection to maintain low level viremia (less than 3000
      copies/ml). The fundamental measurement of this response is the steady state level of
      viremia in the absence of antiretroviral drugs. However, using this clinical endpoint in
      vaccine and drug trials is time-consuming. Several laboratory assays of HIV T cell function
      have been developed to measure the key characteristics of an efficient immune response. This
      study will evaluate these assays in two distinct patient populations.

      Two patient cohorts will be followed in this study. Cohort A will enroll patients who are
      stable on highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). These patients will have been on the
      same HAART regimen for at least 9 months prior to study entry. Cohort B will enroll patients
      with chronic HIV infection and efficient immune control. These patients will have not been
      on any antiretroviral drugs for at least 6 months and will have viral loads less than 3,000
      copies/ml. Participants in both cohorts will have blood drawn at study entry and Weeks 12
      and 24. Blood samples will be used for CD4/CD8 cell count, plasma HIV-1 RNA, and immunologic
      assays.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria for Cohorts A and B:

          -  HIV-1 infection

          -  CD4 cell count > 300 cells/mm3 within 60 days prior to study entry

          -  Negative pregnancy test within 14 days of starting study

          -  Agree to use acceptable methods of contraception while in study

        Inclusion Criteria for Cohort A (Stable HAART) Only:

          -  Stable HAART regimen, defined as the suppression of viral load to undetectable
             levels, for at least 9 months prior to study entry

          -  Viral load < 75 copies/ml on at least three occasions within 9 months prior to study
             entry, with at least one of these values obtained between 6 and 9 months prior to
             study entry

          -  No single viral load >= 75 copies/ml within 9 months prior to study entry

        Inclusion Criteria for Cohort B (Efficient Immune Control) Only:

          -  Not taking any antiretroviral drugs for at least 6 months prior to study entry

          -  Meets study definition of efficient immune control (generally HIV-1 viral load <
             3,000 copies/ml, with some exceptions)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnancy or breast-feeding

          -  Active drug or alcohol use or dependence that, in the opinion of the investigator,
             would interfere with adherence to study requirements

          -  History of an AIDS-defining opportunistic infection
      
