TITLE:
Chromium Effects on Insulin and Vascular Function in People at Risk for Diabetes

CONDITION:
Obesity

INTERVENTION:
Chromium

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of Chromium on glucose tolerance and
      endothelial function in people at risk for type II diabetes.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), impaired fasting glucose (IFG), and insulin resistance
      (IR) are precursors to type II diabetes mellitus (DM) and its sequelae, and are cardiac risk
      factors in their own right. The worsening epidemic of DM in the US, along with the
      increasing prevalence of obesity, insulin resistance, and IGT, render the identification of
      promising interventions for these states a matter of some urgency. While lifestyle
      interventions based on dietary pattern and physical activity can delay or prevent the onset
      of diabetes, and reduce cardiovascular risk, adherence at the population level is severely
      limiting. Pharmacotherapy offers promise for diabetes prevention, but with associated high
      costs, unacceptability to many patients, and potential toxicity. In this context, the
      potential role of chromium (Cr), an insulin co-factor, in IGT is of great interest. Chromium
      use is widespread, but evidence of any therapeutic effect is limited.

      Proposed, therefore, is a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled pilot trial conducted
      at the Yale Prevention Research Center, to investigate the effects of daily Cr for 6 months
      at two dose levels on serum measures of glucose tolerance, and on endothelial function, in
      adults with IGT, IFG, and IR. A modified crossover design will allow for paired and unpaired
      analyses including comparison of both 500 mcg and 1,000 mcg of Cr daily to placebo;
      comparison between 500 mcg and 1000 mcg of chromium; and evaluation of Cr washout time. The
      study is powered to detect a clinically meaningful effect of Cr supplementation at either
      dose on glucose control, and to compare the two doses for equivalence. The study will
      investigate effects of Cr on both measures of glucose tolerance (glucose, insulin, OGTT) and
      brachial artery endothelial function, thus combining serum measures with a physiologic test
      of Cr effects on the vasculature.

      The proposed study will generate much needed data regarding the efficacy of Cr in those at
      risk for type II diabetes and offers the promise of guiding practice, as well as directing
      future study. By contributing to knowledge related to potential diabetes prevention
      strategies, this study addresses one of the more pressing public health issues in the US
      today. Risk to human subjects in this study is a minor increment over minimal due to the
      administration of nitroglycerin as a control in BARS testing.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Adults

          -  18 years of age or older

          -  Identified to have impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), impaired fasting glucose (IFG),
             or insulin resistance.

        According to the 1999 World Health Organization (WHO) report, IGT is diagnosed if the
        following two criteria are met: 1) Plasma glucose two hours after consuming 75g glucose
        (OGTT) is at least 7.8 mmol/l (140 mg/dl) but below 11.1 mmol/l (200 mg/dl) and 2) Fasting
        plasma glucose level is less than 7.0 mmol/l (126 mg/dl). IFG is diagnosed by a fasting
        plasma glucose concentration of 5.6 mmol/l (100 mg dl/l) or greater, but less than 7.0
        mmol/l (126 mg dl/l). NCEP ATP III guidelines define 5 components of insulin resistance.

        At least 3 of the 5 criteria are required for the diagnosis. These components are:

        Abdominal obesity determined by waist circumference >102cm(>40in) in men or >88cm(>35in)
        in women; triglyceride level 150mg/dL; HDL-C <40mg/dL in men or <50mg/dL in women; blood
        pressure  130/85mm Hg; and fasting glucose  100mg/dL.

        -Connecticut residents willing to travel to Griffin Hospital in Derby, CT

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Known diabetes (Fasting Plasma Glucose > 126 mg/dl; 2-hour 75-g OGTT plasma glucose >
             200 mg/dl;

          -  Diabetes diagnosed by a physician and confirmed by other clinical data);

          -  Self-reported hospitalization for treatment of heart disease in past 6 months;

          -  Impaired renal function as measured by labwork at initial screening (serum creatinine
             greater than 2.0 Serum creatinine and urine albumin excretion will be tested every
             six months throughout the study). Significant changes from baseline or to outside of
             threshold will be reported to the DSMB for appropriate action, including removal from
             the study.

          -  Self-reported pancreatitis. In the instance that potential subjects report that they
             are unsure whether they have been diagnosed with this condition, a primary medical
             doctor's note will be obtained confirming non-diagnosis before inclusion in the
             study.

          -  Self-reported recent or significant abdominal surgery;

          -  Self-reported pregnancy and/or intention become pregnancy during the study. Women of
             child-bearing age will consent to pregnancy testing at baseline, and will agree to
             avoiding pregnancy by reliable means throughout the duration of the study.

          -  Self-reported polycystic ovarian syndrome or irregular menses will be excluded from
             the study. (In the future, people with self-reported polycystic ovarian syndrome or
             irregular menses may be allowed in the study, however, because their conditions have
             the potential of affecting the outcome of BARS testing (a secondary outcome), they
             will be treated as a subset of the population during data analysis).
      
