TITLE:
Matrix Metalloproteinases and Diabetic Nephropathy

CONDITION:
Diabetes Mellitus, Type 1

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a family of protein-degrading enzymes that are involved
      in the breakdown and remodeling of many tissues and organs. Abnormal activity of these
      enzymes has been implicated in many disease processes including rheumatoid arthritis, dental
      disease and metastatic cancer. Recent studies also suggest that elevations in blood sugar
      may abnormally effect MMP enzyme activity. Decreased activity of some of these MMP enzymes
      may be a partial cause of the abnormal enlargement of the kidney (renal hypertrophy) seen at
      the start of diabetic kidney disease (nephropathy). Preliminary clinical data from our
      laboratory confirm that children with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM) have
      lower blood levels of some of these enzymes at the time of very high blood sugar readings.
      However, these enzyme levels become normal again as blood sugar levels improve with insulin
      treatment. In the present study, we propose to investigate the hypothesis that MMPs are
      involved in the cause of diabetic kidney disease by measuring concentrations of specific
      MMPs and some related proteins in the blood and urine of patients with type 1 DM who are
      between the ages of 14-40 years. We will enroll some patients who are recently diagnosed
      with diabetes, some who have had diabetes for several years, but without signs of kidney
      disease, and some with long-term diabetes and various degrees of kidney disease. Continuous
      Subcutaneous Glucose Monitoring, conducted for 3-4 days, will also be provided as a part of
      this study, to determine how different levels of blood sugar control might relate to
      different levels of MMP enzyme activity in the blood. We anticipate that this study will
      help to establish a link between abnormal MMP activity and the cause of nephropathy in type
      1 DM, allowing scientists to design better therapies for the prevention and treatment of
      diabetes-related kidney problems.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 14 Years to 40 Years
Criteria:

        Type 1 Diabetes with or without kidney disease and past puberty.
      
