TITLE:
Yakima Head Start Fluoride Varnish Study

CONDITION:
Dental Caries

INTERVENTION:
Fluoride varnish

SUMMARY:

      The aim of this study is to determine whether an annual application of three (3) fluoride
      varnish doses over two weeks is at least as effective in reducing cavities as the current
      semi-annual application.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The study population will consist of pre-school aged children who are residents of Yakima
      County, in central Washington State. Children will be recruited from non-migrant Head Start
      programs for ethnic minority farmworker children in the Yakima Valley.

      This study will be a randomized, double blinded trial with one experimental and one standard
      treatment group. Each participant will be randomly assigned to one of two study groups. The
      participant and the personnel conducting the study will not know to which study group the
      participant was assigned.

      This trial has two study groups:

        1. Massive Dose (Experimental):

           Annually for three years, children in the experimental group will receive three .30ml
           applications of 50mg NaF/mL fluoride varnish (CavityShield, Omni), followed 6 months
           later by three .30ml applications of placebo varnish in two weeks. There are 18 visits
           over the entire duration of the study. Each participant will receive a dental exam
           annually.

        2. Semiannual Dose (Standard):

      Annually for three years, children in the standard treatment group will receive one .30ml
      application of 50mg NaF/mL fluoride varnish (CavityShield, Omni) and two .30ml applications
      of placebo varnish in two weeks. They will receive this regimen again 6 months later. There
      are 18 visits over the entire duration of the study. Each participant will receive a dental
      exam annually.

      Both the experimental and standard treatment children will receive basic restorative dental
      care on decayed surfaces only, as well as toothbrushes for the duration of the study period.
      Parents will fill out questionnaires about behaviors such as diet, hygiene and prior dental
      care. Results will inform future treatment regimens for high-caries-risk populations.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 36 Months to 71 Months
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Age 36-71 months

          -  Enrolled in participating Head Start Center

          -  Plan to stay in Yakima County for duration of the study

          -  One sound tooth surface present

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  No teeth present

          -  Developmentally unable to give oral assent
      
