TITLE:
Comparing Two Group Therapy Treatments for Binge Eating Disorder

CONDITION:
Eating Disorders

INTERVENTION:
Group Psychotherapy-Negative Emotion Focus

SUMMARY:

      This study will compare two different approaches for the treatment for Binge Eating
      Disorder.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Binge Eating Disorder (BED) is associated with impairments in physical, psychological, and
      social functioning. Research has revealed relationships between disordered eating and both
      low self-esteem and negative emotional states.

      Participants in this study will complete assessment interviews regarding their eating
      disorder and associated problems. Similar assessments will be conducted at the end of the
      study. Participants will then be randomly assigned to one of two therapy groups.
      Participants in one group will focus on the role of self-esteem, self-awareness, and
      personal effectiveness in binge eating. Participants in the other group will focus on the
      role of negative emotions and binge eating. Both treatments will involve a 30 to 40 minute
      pre-treatment individual orientation session, followed by 20 weeks of weekly group therapy.
      Sessions will take place over 22 weeks, or approximately 6 months (18 weekly sessions
      followed by 2 biweekly sessions). Follow-up assessments will take place at 3 months, 6
      months, and 12 months after study completion to assess maintenance of treatment effects.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Diagnosis of Binge Eating Disorder

          -  Reside in the San Francisco Bay Area

          -  Willing to commit to the study requirements

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Unstable medical problems

          -  History of bipolar illness or schizophrenia

          -  Receiving treatment for an eating disorder (or unwillingness to discontinue treatment
             upon study entry)

          -  Membership in weight-loss groups such as Weight Watchers or Jenny Craig (or
             unwillingness to discontinue membership upon study entry)

          -  Use of medications affecting weight or appetite. Antidepressants are acceptable, but
             doses of any psychiatric medication must have been stable for at least 3 months prior
             to study start

          -  Breast-feeding

          -  Require gastric-bypass surgery
      
