TITLE:
The Dose Response of Niacin ER/Lovastatin on Peak Walking Time (PWT) in Patients With Intermittent Claudication - TROPIC

CONDITION:
Intermittent Claudication

INTERVENTION:
Niacin Extended Release and Lovastatin Tablets

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to compare the dose response and safety of Niacin
      ER/Lovastatin, Niaspan and Lovastatin with each other, in subjects with leg pain caused by
      a narrowing of their leg arteries.

      At least 870 subjects, with leg pain caused by a narrowing of their leg arteries will take
      part in this study.

      Both Niaspan and lovastatin (Mevacor) are approved by the United States Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) to treat high cholesterol. Niacin ER/Lovastatin (Advicor), a
      combination of these two drugs, is also approved by the FDA to treat high cholesterol. The
      use of Niacin ER/Lovastatin to treat narrowing of leg arteries and relieve intermittent
      claudication (leg pain caused by narrowing of the arteries in the leg) is considered
      investigational. An investigational use is one that is not approved by the FDA.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This is a Phase 3, 32-week, double-blind, diet-intervention, randomized, parallel group,
      ten-arm, multi-center, multi-national, dose titration study evaluating the safety and
      efficacy of NL in patients with intermittent claudication (IC).

      The objectives of this study are to evaluate the safety and efficacy of NL in patients with
      IC. The primary efficacy analysis will be the percent change from baseline in Peak Walking
      Time (PWT) calculated from the natural logarithm of the ratio of the time walked on
      treadmill at the Week 32 Visit divided by the time walked at baseline. Other efficacy
      measures will include Claudication Onset Time (COT) percent changes from baseline to Week 32
      , changes in Ankle Brachial Index (ABI), Quality of Life (QoL) percent changes at Weeks 20
      and 32, lower limb amputations, composite of cardiovascular events (MI, stroke, and vascular
      death), and coronary and peripheral artery revascularizations. Safety variables will include
      serum transaminases, routine chemistry parameters, hematology, and adverse events.
      Pharmacokinetic analyses will be conducted as well.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 40 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION CRITERIA:

          -  Men & women at least 40 years of age or older. Women must not be pregnant nor
             breast-feeding & not planning to become pregnant or to breast-feed.

          -  History of IC of the lower extremities which has been present for at least 6 months
             with no change in symptoms in the previous 3 months prior to screening.

          -  LDL-C of <160 mg/dL and Triglycerides <800.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

          -  Severe neuropathy.

          -  Gross obesity (BMI  40).

          -  Presence of critical limb ischemia defined as ischemic rest pain, gangrene,
             ulceration, or pending amputation of a lower extremity due to severe PAD.

          -  Surgical intervention to alleviate symptoms of claudication within 6 months or
             endovascular interventions within 3 months.

          -  Documented CAD taking any cholesterol-modifying agent and unable to undergo washout
             as judged by the Investigator or due to personal choice.

          -  Systolic blood pressure 160 mmHg &/or diastolic blood pressure 95 mmHg.

          -  Presence of clinically significant laboratory test abnormalities for liver or renal
             function tests, thyroid function or HgbA1C.

          -  History of alcohol abuse or currently drinks alcohol in excess.
      
