TITLE:
Collection of Tissue Specimens From Patients With Solid Tumors or Blood Disorders and Their HLA-Compatible Family Members

CONDITION:
Neoplasms

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This study will collect biological samples for use in research experiments aimed at better
      understanding the clinical features of certain diseases. The specimens may be used to
      evaluate the effectiveness of known therapies, refine treatment approaches, identify
      potential new therapies, and explore opportunities for disease prevention.

      The following individuals 2 years of age or older may be eligible for this study:

        -  Patients with a cancerous solid tumor or a cancerous or non-cancerous blood disorder
           who are being screened for or who are enrolled in a treatment study at the NIH Clinical
           Center

        -  HLA-compatible donor family members (18 years of age or older) of the above patients
           who are being evaluated for or are enrolled in an NIH study as a stem cell transplant
           donor

        -  Patients with a cancerous solid tumor or a cancerous or non-cancerous blood disorder or
           a bone marrow failure condition who cannot participate in an NIH treatment protocol or
           travel to the NIH Clinical Center and who are referred for participation through their
           home health care provider.

      Research samples will be collected from participants when blood is drawn or bone marrow,
      urine, or stool is collected, or tumor or other tissue is biopsied as part of their general
      medical care. Investigators may periodically request an additional sample of blood, stool,
      or urine. Participants who are 18 years of age or older may donate a large number of white
      blood cells through a procedure called leukapheresis. This procedure is not part of general
      medical care and would be done for research purposes only. For apheresis, a catheter
      (plastic tube) is placed in a vein in the subject's arm. Blood flows from the vein into a
      cell separator machine, where the white cells are separated from the red cells, platelets,
      and plasma by a spinning process. The white cells are removed and collected, and the rest of
      the blood is returned to the subject through a second tube placed in the other arm.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The purpose of this protocol is to collect blood, bone marrow, urine, stool, buccal mucosa
      and/or both malignant and non-malignant tissue from patients who are either being evaluated
      for enrollment, are consented to NIH Clinical Center treatment protocols, or are receiving
      therapy for their disease through home health care providers. Since a substantial proportion
      of the clinical and translational research in the Hematology Branch involves patients
      undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplantation, this protocol will also be open to people
      identified as suitable HLA-compatible donors for patients undergoing evaluation for or
      already enrolled in an allogeneic stem cell transplant protocol or receiving a stem cell
      transplant through their home health care providers. These HLA-compatible donors will serve
      as a source of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (peripheral blood draws or leukapheresis)
      for use in evaluating allogeneic graft versus host and graft-versus-tumor effects.

      The primary objective is to provide a mechanism for collection, tracking, storing,
      dispensing, analyzing and disposing of these laboratory research samples from patients and
      HLA matched donors.

      There is no primary endpoint.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 2 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        The subject carries the diagnosis of malignant solid tumor or a malignant or non-malignant
        hematologic disorder, and is being screened at the NIH for eligibility for an NIH Clinical
        Center treatment protocol.

        OR

        The subject carries the diagnosis of malignant solid tumor or a malignant or non-malignant
        hematologic disorder, and is already enrolled on a clinical protocol at the NIH Clinical
        Center.

        OR

        The subject is a related HLA-compatible family member of a patient (bearing a diagnosis of
        malignant solid tumor or a malignant or non-malignant hematologic) being evaluated for or
        already enrolled on a clinical protocol at the NIH Clinical Center and is identified as a
        potentially suitable donor of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cells for transplantation.

        OR

        The subject carries the diagnosis of malignant solid tumor or a malignant or non malignant
        hematologic disorder or a bone marrow failure condition and is not available to
        participate in an NIH Clinical Center treatment protocol, or travel to the NIH clinical
        center, but is referred for participation through their home health care provider.

        The subject or the subject's guardian is able to understand the investigational nature of
        the study and provide informed consent after initial counseling by clinical staff.
        Separate consent forms for all interventional or surgical procedures will be obtained
        after explanation of the specific procedure.

        Age 2 years and older (no upper limit)

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Subjects unable to comprehend the investigational nature of the procedure

        Age less than 2 years
      
