TITLE:
Shamanic Healing for Women With Temporomandibular Joint Disorders (TMDs)

CONDITION:
Temporomandibular Disorders

INTERVENTION:
shamanic healing

SUMMARY:

      This is a Phase I study to examine the feasibility and safety of shamanic (spiritual)
      healing for treating temporomandibular joint disorders (TMDs).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Traditional systems of healing, such as shamanism, do not readily lend themselves to
      conventional research methods, yet studying their effectiveness is especially germane in the
      case of chronic conditions that involve an emotional component and that elude allopathic
      treatment regimens. Temporomandibular joint disorders (TMDs), which affect up to 10% of the
      adult population, are a prime example of such conditions. Traditional treatment outcomes for
      TMD pain are often unsatisfactory. Moreover, in women age 25-55 (the age-sex group most
      affected), TMD is often found in association with depression, anxiety, sleep disturbances,
      gastrointestinal symptoms, frequent infection,and fibromyalgia. Because these multiple and
      complex symptoms suggest a loss of spirit or life energy, they may be particularly
      susceptible to treatment by shamanic (spiritual) healing, which aims to bring disturbed
      physical, mental, and emotional systems into balance. This phase I study will develop
      methods to evaluate shamanic healing as an intervention for TMD and will evaluate the
      feasibility of conducting randomized clinical trials of shamanic healing.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 25 Years to 55 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion criteria:

          -  Females Age 25-55

          -  TMD Research Diagnosis Criteria (RDC) clinical diagnosis of myofacial pain with or
             without disc displacement, arthralgia, arthritis, or arthosis

          -  Three or more significant systemic conditions, e.g. depression, fibromyalgia, GI or
             reproductive disturbances, upper respiratory problems, etc. in the preceding 2 years.

        Exclusion criteria:

          -  Diagnosed organic or medication induced major mental illness (e.g., schizophrenia,
             bipolar)

          -  Other neurological diagnoses (epilepsy, Parkinsons)

          -  Pregnancy
      
