TITLE:
Study to Evaluate the Effectiveness of StaphVAX in Adults on Hemodialysis

CONDITION:
Staphylococcal Infections

INTERVENTION:
S. aureus Type 5 and 8 Capsular Polysaccharide Conjugate Vaccine

SUMMARY:

      Two part study testing the effectiveness and safety of StaphVAX vaccine in chronic
      hemodialysis patients against infection by Staphylococcus aureus.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Two part clinical trial designed to evaluate the efficacy of StaphVAX in adults on
      hemodialysis. Part A will evaluate the prevention of bacteremic infections in End Stage
      Renal Disease (ESRD) patients during the interval between 3 and 35 weeks after a single dose
      of StaphVAX. Part B of this study is designed to assess immunogenicity of a second [booster]
      dose of vaccine in patients completing Part A, and the cumulative (Part A + B) efficacy.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Eligible subjects must already be receiving chronic hemodialysis treatment from the
        centers participating in this study. Interested subjects should discuss enrollment with
        their nephrologist.

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Age 18 years or older.

          -  Diagnosis of chronic end-stage renal disease with maintenance on hemodialysis
             continuously for at least eight (8) weeks prior to enrollment.

          -  Hemodialysis access using native vessel fistula or synthetic/heterologous graft (not
             catheter).

          -  Expectation of compliance with protocol procedures, and visit schedule.

          -  Negative serum pregnancy test in females of child-bearing potential (serum -HCG
             within 7 days prior to each study drug injection).

          -  Written informed consent.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Known serious S. aureus infection within 3 months of study entry.

          -  Known recurrent S. aureus infection of the current graft.

          -  Known active viral or bacterial infection or symptoms/signs consistent with such an
             infection with the two weeks prior to injection of investigational product. Mild
             intercurrent viral illness with a temperature of 100.6F or less does not require
             exclusion, if in the judgement of the investigator this illness will not interfere
             with the evaluation of the vaccine.

          -  Known HIV infection (testing not required for protocol).

          -  Known hypersensitivity or previous anaphylaxis to polysaccharides or
             polysaccharide-conjugate vaccines or to components of such vaccines.

          -  Known or suspected abuse of any drugs, prescribed or illicit, in the past year.

          -  Current use of immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory drugs (including systemic
             glucocorticoids, chlorambucil, cyclophosphamide, azathioprine, methotrexate,
             cyclosporine, mycophenolate, human immune globulin in excess of 0.2 g/Kg per month,
             any monoclonal antibody specific for any human leukocyte subset or cytokine, or any
             interferon preparation), except low-dose physiologic replacement glucocorticoid
             therapy (Less than or equal to 10 mg of prednisone or equivalent per day).

          -  Known malignancy or treatment for malignancy within the past six months, other than
             basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma of the skin.

          -  Use of investigational drugs, products, or devices within 30 days prior to vaccine
             injection.

          -  Presence of any condition which, in the opinion of the investigator, places the
             subject at undue risk or potentially jeopardized the quality of the data to be
             generated.

          -  Previous administration of StaphVAX
      
