TITLE:
Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation for "Voices"

CONDITION:
Schizophrenia

INTERVENTION:
repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS)

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the effect of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation on treatment
      refractory auditory hallucinations of patients with schizophrenia.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double blind study. Patients are randomized to one
      of two treatment arms.

      Group I: Patients receive 9 sessions of active transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS)
      which consists of 8 minutes of rTMS during session 1, 12 minutes duration during session 2,
      and 16 minutes duration during sessions 3-9. The total duration of stimulation is 132
      minutes. Each session was given on a separate day and in general each session occurred on
      consecutive days with the exception of weekends.

      Group II: Patients receive 9 sessions of sham stimulation, which consists of 8 minutes of
      sham stimulation during session 1, 12 minutes duration sham stimulation during session 2,
      and 16 minutes duration sham stimulation during sessions 3-9. The total duration of sham
      stimulation is 132 minutes. Each session was given conducted on a separate day and in
      general each session occured on consecutive days with the exception of weekends.

      This study provided pilot data supplying the basis for our current study - NCT00308997 --
      see our website for details
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        PROTOCOL ENTRY CRITERIA:

        Inclusion criteria:

          -  Diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder based on DSM-IV version of
             SCID

          -  Auditory hallucinations of spoken speech occurring at least 5 times per day where
             subject able to discern verbal content

          -  Right-handed

          -  At least 4 weeks on stable antipsychotic medication

        Exclusion criteria:

          -  history of seizure (unless due to drug withdrawal or medication that is no longer
             prescribed)

          -  history of epilepsy in first degree relatives

          -  estimated IQ less than 80

          -  unable to provide informed consent

          -  significant unstable medical condition

          -  current treatment with clozapine or bupropion

          -  cochlear implants or other metal in the head (surgical, etc.)

          -  history of cardiac arrhythmia

          -  cardiac pacemaker

          -  active drug or alcohol abuse within prior 6 weeks

          -  pregnancy
      
