TITLE:
Phase III Randomized Controlled Study of Morphine and Nortriptyline in the Management of Postherpetic Neuralgia

CONDITION:
Pain

INTERVENTION:
desipramine

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine whether opioid (morphine) treatment results in better management of
      pain than treatment with tricyclic antidepressant (nortriptyline).

      II. Assess the effects the two treatments have on affective and cognitive functions.

      III. Determine whether the presence of psychiatric comorbidity, particularly depression, can
      predict the outcome of the two treatments.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double blind, crossover study. Patients are
      stratified by the duration of pain (greater than 1 year or no greater than 1 year) and the
      presence or absence of major depression.

      Patients are randomized into 6 treatment order groups. Patients start with nortriptyline,
      morphine, or placebo, taken orally every day. If patients are unable to tolerate
      nortriptyline or morphine, they will receive desipramine or methadone instead.

      A drug titration period lasting 3 weeks is ensued for administration of the first drug
      treatment. The goal of this titration period is to gradually increase the dose of the drug
      to obtain maximal analgesic efficacy. Drug dosage is maintained for a period of 3 weeks. The
      drug dosage is tapered off and followed by a drug free period of 1 week.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 90 Years
Criteria:

        PROTOCOL ENTRY CRITERIA:

        --Disease Characteristics--

          -  Diagnostically confirmed postherpetic neuralgia for at least 3 months following a
             segmental herpes zoster eruption

        --Prior/Concurrent Therapy--

          -  Other: No concurrent monoamine oxidase inhibitors

        --Patient Characteristics--

          -  Life expectancy: At least 6 months

          -  Cardiovascular: No second degree or complete heart blockage No myocardial infarction
             in the last 3 months

          -  Pulmonary: No severe pulmonary disease

          -  Other: No history of substance abuse No history of dementia No history of
             encephalopathy No severe depression that precludes withdrawal from antidepressants
             Not pregnant No angle-closure glaucoma No AIDS related disease complex No terminal
             disease with life expectancy of less that 6 months
      
