TITLE:
S9921, Hormone Therapy With or Without Mitoxantrone and Prednisone in Patients Who Have Undergone Radical Prostatectomy for Prostate Cancer

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
bicalutamide

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Hormones can stimulate the production of prostate cancer cells. Hormone therapy
      may fight prostate cancer by reducing the production of androgens. Drugs used in
      chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or
      die. It is not yet known whether hormone therapy plus mitoxantrone and prednisone is more
      effective than hormone therapy alone for prostate cancer.

      PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is studying hormone therapy, mitoxantrone, and
      prednisone to see how well they work compared to hormone therapy alone in treating patients
      who have undergone radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall and disease-free survival of patients with high-risk adenocarcinoma
           of the prostate treated with adjuvant androgen deprivation therapy with or without
           mitoxantrone and prednisone after radical prostatectomy.

        -  Compare the qualitative and quantitative toxic effects of these regimens in this
           patient population.

        -  Compare the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) progression-free survival rate in patient
           treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine whether PSA progression is a surrogate endpoint for survival or disease-free
           survival in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      surgical extent of disease (organ confined vs not organ confined, but N0 vs N1), Gleason's
      sum (less than 7 vs 7 vs greater than 7), and planned radiotherapy (yes vs no). Patients are
      randomized to one of two treatment arms.

        -  Arm I:Patients receive goserelin subcutaneously once every 13 weeks (8 injections
           total) and oral bicalutamide once daily for 2 years in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II:Patients receive mitoxantrone IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and oral prednisone
           twice daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 6 courses in the absence
           of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive hormonal therapy
           as in arm I beginning concurrently with the initiation of mitoxantrone and prednisone.

      Patients may undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 6.5-7.8 weeks beginning anytime (arm I)
      or after completion of chemotherapy (arm II), at the discretion of the physician, in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are offered the possibility to participate in biomarker research by allowing their
      tissue/blood to be studied.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then annually for up to 13 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,360 patients (680 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 9.5 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed stage T1-T3 adenocarcinoma of the prostate before radical
             prostatectomy and lymph node dissection

               -  Must have undergone prostatectomy within the past 120 days

          -  Must meet at least 1 of the following pathologic criteria:

               -  Gleason sum at least 8

               -  pT3b (seminal vesicle), pT4, or N1

               -  Gleason sum of 7 and positive margin

               -  Preoperative PSA greater than 15 ng/mL, Gleason score greater than 7, or PSA
                  level greater than 10 ng/mL and Gleason score greater than 6

          -  Must have an undetectable PSA (no greater than 0.2 ng/mL) documented after surgery or
             prior to adjuvant hormonal therapy (for patients initiating adjuvant hormonal therapy
             prior to study)

          -  No evidence of metastatic disease on bone scan if PSA is 20 ng/mL or greater at
             clinical diagnosis

          -  No distant metastatic disease

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Performance status:

          -  SWOG 0-1

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No uncontrolled congestive heart failure

          -  If history of cardiac disease, LVEF at least 50% by MUGA scan or 2-D echocardiogram

        Other:

          -  No HIV positivity

          -  No other prior malignancy within the past 5 years except adequately treated basal
             cell or squamous cell skin cancer or stage I or II cancer that is currently in
             complete remission

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Prior neoadjuvant hormonal therapy of no more than 4 months duration before radical
             prostatectomy allowed

          -  Other concurrent adjuvant hormonal therapy allowed if initiated prior to study

          -  Concurrent low-dose megestrol (less than 40 mg/day) for hot flashes allowed

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No prior radiotherapy

          -  No concurrent whole pelvis irradiation

          -  Concurrent radiotherapy allowed at the discretion of the physician

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  See Endocrine therapy

          -  Recovered from prior surgery

        Other:

          -  No other prior or concurrent therapy for adenocarcinoma of the prostate
      
