TITLE:
The Effects of Dextroamphetamine on Brain Function

CONDITION:
Healthy

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of the drug dextroamphetamine on the
      brain function and mood of healthy volunteers.

      Monoaminergic drugs are substances that affect the nervous system; these drugs can raise,
      hamper, or have no effect on brain function when given to healthy individuals. Different
      responses to a drug may be the result of genetic variations. This study will examine the
      effects of the monoaminergic drug dextroamphetamine on thought and sensorimotor processes
      while participants perform a variety of tasks.

      Participants in this study will undergo a medical history, physical examination, blood
      tests, and an electrocardiogram (EKG). Women of reproductive potential will undergo a
      pregnancy test. Participants will be given either dextroamphetamine or placebo (an inactive
      solution) on two occasions separated by at least 3 to 7 days. Participants will then perform
      neuropsychological tests that will measure attention, problem solving, memory, and ability
      to complete simple motor tasks.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Neuropharmacological intervention with monoaminergic drugs in healthy subjects can either
      augment, have no effect, or hamper brain function. We hypothesize that these population
      differences might be related to differences (high vs. low) in monoaminergic synaptic
      function which may be due to specific allelic variations in monoamine system genes (e.g.,
      various synaptic proteins, synthetic enzymes, etc.). We wish to examine the effect of
      dextroamphetamine, a non-specific monoaminergic drug, on cognitive efficiency while subjects
      perform a variety of tasks including memory challenges with increasing cognitive load and
      varying rewards, selective attention and emotional processing. Further, in collaboration
      with other NIMH neuroimaging protocols, we wish to examine the neurophysiological correlates
      of these effects. We believe this protocol will provide a matrix for many investigations to
      elucidate important neurophysiological mechanisms that underlie normal cognition and
      cognitive efficiency. It is anticipated that these studies would be of potential
      'pharmacogenetic' importance with regard to individual differences in the metabolism of
      monoaminergic drugs in normal health, aging and in disease.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Normal volunteers will be recruited exclusively from among individuals who have
        volunteered for studies under protocol 95-M-0150 as normal control subjects and for whom
        genetic data is already available. Subjects will satisfy the inclusion/exclusion criteria
        for that protocol before being given an opportunity to volunteer under this protocol. Here
        we detail criteria that are specific to this protocol, per se.

        Inclusion criteria:

          1. Prior participation as a normal volunteer under NIH protocol # 95-M-0150.

          2. No Axis I or Axis II diagnosis.

          3. Age range: 18-45 years.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

          1. Subjects with an Axis I or II disorder will be excluded.

          2. Subjects with a history of cardiovascular disease and other medical illnesses,
             substance abuse or recreational drug use, and hypertension will be excluded. An
             electrocardiogram, blood pressure and pulse rate will be checked on all subjects
             prior to participation in the study.

          3. Pregnant women. Women of childbearing potential will undergo a urine pregnancy test
             the day of the study and screened by history for the possibility of pregnancy.
      
