TITLE:
"Clinical Trials to Enhance Elders' Oral Health" ("TEETH")

CONDITION:
Tooth Loss

INTERVENTION:
Chlorhexidine rinse

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to determine if regular rinsing with chlorhexidine is effective
      as a long-term preventive method for reducing the incidence of tooth loss in low income
      older adults. The true end-point of the study is tooth loss after five years of regular
      rinsing with chlorhexidine or a placebo; surrogate endpoints are periodontal disease, root
      and coronal decay.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      "TEETH" is a double-blinded, randomized clinical trial, supervised by a Data & Safety
      Monitoring Board, designed to provide unequivocal evidence regarding the impact of regular
      rinsing 0.12% chlorhexidine solution on tooth loss in low income, community-dwelling older
      adults who are irregular users of dental services. Of the 1101 subjects enrolled in the
      study in Seattle, WA and Vancouver, B.C., one/half have been assigned to the active rinse
      condition; the other half to the placebo rinse which looks and tastes like the chlorhexidine
      rinse but does not have the active ingredient. Subjects receive two bottles of rinse every
      six months; the first to be used daily for one month, the second weekly for five months.
      Reminder calls are designed to help subjects maintain this rinse regimen. Subjects return
      yearly to research clinics at each participating university, where they are examined by a
      dentist who is trained in clinical research methodology and calibrated annually. The purpose
      of these visits is to examine subjects for tooth loss (followed by contacts with extracting
      dentists to determine the dentist's reasons for extracting the tooth), pocket depth,
      recession, caries and restorations on root and coronal surfaces. Interviews are also
      conducted annually with participants to assess health status, health behaviors, and oral
      health quality of life. A panoramic radiograph was taken at baseline of each subject and is
      to be done again at the five-year (final) yearly exam. These radiographs are used to confirm
      tooth loss and possible reasons for extractions
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 60 Years to 75 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Age at entry 60-75

          -  Four or more natural teeth

          -  No preventive dental visits in the past 18 months

          -  Scores > or = 60 on a measure of oral health self-efficacy (max possible=100)

          -  willing to participate in a five-year study

          -  willing to use rinses on a prescribed regimen and to return for yearly cleaning and
             exam appointments.

        Exclusion criteria:

          -  Not having a phone at home for follow-up calls
      
