TITLE:
Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial of Vitamin E as Add-on Therapy for Children With Epilepsy

CONDITION:
Epilepsy

INTERVENTION:
Vitamin E

SUMMARY:

      This is a study to see if vitamin E helps children with epilepsy have fewer seizures. About
      20-30% of children with epilepsy do not have adequate seizure control with established
      antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). Other options for patients with uncontrolled epilepsy are newer
      antiepileptic medications, ketogenic diet and surgery. However, a small percentage of
      patients are candidates for these options. Therefore, additional treatments are needed to
      improve seizure control in patients with uncontrolled epilepsy. Animal studies have shown an
      association between vitamin E supplementation and seizure reduction. A study in children
      also showed that vitamin E helped reduce seizures. However, a similar study in adults did
      not show a reduction in seizures with vitamin E supplementation. Therefore, this research
      study is being done to help define vitamin E's usefulness and safety as a treatment for
      epilepsy. Fifty patients will be recruited from the Children's Epilepsy Program at The
      Children's Hospital in Denver, Colorado. Qualifying patients will have a confirmed diagnosis
      of epilepsy that is currently uncontrolled with standard AEDs. The study period is 6 months
      and includes the following: Baseline period (1 month), Arm I (2 months), Wash-out period (1
      month), and Arm II (2 months). Patients must have been on the same AEDs for 2 months before
      enrollment. All medications and complementary therapies must remain constant throughout the
      study. If at any point the physician feels it is not best for the patient to continue the
      study they will be discontinued. Before the study starts, study participants will be asked
      about seizure activity, what they eat and about any complementary and/or alternative
      medicine they may use. The study is two phases. Study participants will be given either
      vitamin E or placebo (fake pill/liquid) in each phase of the study. They will receive both
      vitamin E and placebo during the study. Which phase they receive vitamin E and placebo will
      be decided by chance (similar to rolling dice). Study participants will take liquid vitamin
      E or placebo two times per day. The study participants and study doctors will not know who
      is taking vitamin E and who is taking placebo. Study participants will come to the hospital
      for 3 outpatient and 2 inpatient visits. Health-related quality of life questionnaires will
      be filled out and blood will be drawn at three of the visits. Seizure diaries will be
      maintained throughout the study.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 1 Year to 18 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Diagnosis of intractable epilepsy, defined as 1) at least 4 seizures per month; 2)
             failure of at least 3 standard AEDs EEG within the last 6 months

          -  Measurable seizure occurrence (parent/caregiver is able to count the number of
             seizures in any given time period)

          -  Stable AED regimen, with at least one standard AED for at least 2 months prior to
             enrollment

          -  No vitamin E supplementation (except as in standard multivitamin for age) for 6
             months prior to study entry
      
