TITLE:
Study of the Results of Education and Counseling for Persons Undergoing Genetic Testing for Hereditary Nonpolyposis Colon Cancer

CONDITION:
Colorectal Cancer

INTERVENTION:
loss of heterozygosity analysis

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Identifying family and individual characteristics may help plan education and
      counseling for patients who are considering genetic testing.

      PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying education and counseling to see what effect they
      have in patients who are undergoing genetic testing for hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer
      (recruitment of new families with HNPCC stopped as of 04-26-06, recruitment of persons
      within families already participating continues).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Identify family characteristics, personality traits, and religious and spiritual
           beliefs that significantly affect individual decisions regarding mutation testing for
           hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC) (recruitment of new families with HNPCC
           stopped as of 04-26-06, recruitment of persons within families already participating
           continues).

        -  Determine the impact of negative vs positive mutation test results on family
           relationships and psychological status.

        -  Assess expectations regarding testing and how they influence perceptions of risks and
           responses to risk notification.

        -  Determine the impact of risk notification on the frequency of screening/prevention
           activities.

        -  Formulate a standard diagnostic algorithm for determining microsatellite instability
           based on the analysis of tumors with this extensive array of markers and correlate
           specific replication error phenotypes with germline genotype.

      OUTLINE: Participants complete a baseline assessment of knowledge, risk perception, and
      personality traits followed by a structured pretest education session. Participants are then
      offered the choice of whether or not to undergo genetic testing for mutations in hereditary
      nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC) genes. Participants who choose to undergo genetic testing
      provide a blood sample for this purpose. Participants who undergo genetic testing receive
      results and counseling (recruitment of new families with HNPCC stopped as of 04-26-06,
      recruitment of persons within families already participating continues).

      Available surveillance options are discussed for all participants. Psychological and
      behavioral outcomes are reassessed at 6 and 12 months for both those choosing and not
      choosing genetic testing.

      Tumors (when available) are analyzed for mismatched repair deficiency on the basis of
      microsatellite instability.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 900 participants will be accrued for this study, with a
      specific target of 200 individuals who have not experienced cancer within families
      identified with hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC) mutations (recruitment of new
      families with HNPCC stopped as of 04-26-06, recruitment of persons within families already
      participating continues).
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Meets one of the following criteria:

               -  Family history consistent with hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC)*

                    -  At least 3 relatives with histologically proven colorectal cancer or
                       HNPCC-associated cancer and 1 is a first-degree relative of the other 2

                    -  At least 2 successive generations affected

                    -  Colorectal cancer (or HNPCC-associated cancer) diagnosed under age 50 in 1
                       of the relatives

               -  Diagnosis of colorectal cancer under age 41

               -  HNPCC-associated cancer/polyps* under age 41 with a microsatellite instability
                  (MSI) phenotype

               -  Multiple primary HNPCC-associated cancers* regardless of family history

               -  Colorectal or other HNPCC-associated tumor/polyp* demonstrating a positive MSI
                  phenotype and at least 1 second-degree (or closer) and 1 third-degree (or
                  closer) relative with a HNPCC-associated cancer

                    -  1 affected family member must have one of the following:

                         -  Right-sided colon cancer

                         -  Multiple primary HNPCC-associated cancers

                         -  Diagnosis of cancer prior to age 51 NOTE: *Recruitment of new families
                            with HNPCC stopped as of 04-26-06, recruitment of persons within
                            families already participating continues

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified
      
