TITLE:
Phase III Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Study of Acellular and Whole-Cell Pertussis Vaccines

CONDITION:
Pertussis

INTERVENTION:
whole-cell pertussis vaccine

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the safety and efficacy of acellular 2-component vs. acellular
      multicomponent vs. whole-cell pertussis vaccine vs. placebo in infants living in Sweden.

      II. Compare the relative protection of each vaccine against atypical or subclinical
      pertussis infection.

      III. Analyze possible laboratory correlates to vaccine protection.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind study. Patients are stratified by
      participating institution.

      The first group of infants receives a vaccine composed of inactivated pertussis toxin (iPT)
      and filamentous hemagglutin (FHA).

      The second group receives a vaccine containing iPT, FHA, pertactin, agglutinogen 2, and
      agglutinogen 3.

      The third group receives a whole-cell pertussis vaccine. The fourth group receives a
      diphtheria-tetanus vaccine as the control. All vaccines are given as an intramuscular
      injection, at 2-3, 4, and 6 months of age.

      Close surveillance of infants and families continues for 2-3 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 2 Months to 3 Months
Criteria:

        PROTOCOL ENTRY CRITERIA:

        --Population Characteristics--

          -  Infants aged 2 months at planned date of first vaccination

          -  No prior pertussis confirmed by culture

          -  The following do not exclude: Down syndrome Prematurity Healthy babies vaccinated
             according to chronological age Recent pertussis exposure Seizures in parent or
             sibling Sudden infant death in sibling Close relative with history of anaphylaxis or
             allergy Close relative with history of strong reaction to vaccination

        --Patient Characteristics--

          -  Age: Under 3 months

          -  Renal: No renal failure

          -  Other: No prior gammaglobulin No requirement for immunosuppressives, e.g., HIV
             infection No manifest immunosuppression No serious chronic illness associated with
             failure to thrive No cardiac disease No progressive neurologic disease No
             uncontrolled epilepsy or infantile spasms No parental language or communication
             barrier
      
