TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy Plus Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Advanced Mouth Cancer

CONDITION:
Head and Neck Cancer

INTERVENTION:
ethynyluracil

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor
      cells. Combining more than one chemotherapy drug with radiation therapy may kill more tumor
      cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy plus
      radiation therapy in treating patients who have advanced mouth cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Assess the feasibility of the administration of ethynyluracil concurrently
      with fluorouracil and radiotherapy in patients with advanced oral cancer. II. Determine the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicities of this regimen in this patient
      population.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of fluorouracil and hydroxyurea. Patients receive
      oral ethynyluracil every 12 hours on days 1-7 and oral fluorouracil every 12 hours on days
      2-6. Radiotherapy to the head and neck is administered twice daily on days 2-6. Treatment
      continues for 5-7 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 3-6 patients
      receive escalating doses of fluorouracil until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is
      determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 3 of 6 patients
      experience dose limiting toxicities. Once the MTD of fluorouracil is determined, hydroxyurea
      is added to the treatment regimen. Patients receive fluorouracil and ethynyluracil as per
      the treatment schedule outlined above. Patients also receive oral hydroxyurea every 12 hours
      for 11 doses on days 1-6. Radiotherapy is administered as above. Cohorts of 3-6 patients
      receive escalating doses of hydroxyurea until the MTD is determined. Once the MTD of
      fluorouracil and hydroxyurea are determined, an additional 10 patients receive Phase II
      doses of ethynyluracil, fluorouracil and hydroxyurea as per the treatment schedule outlined
      above. Treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients are followed at
      4-6 weeks, then every 6 months until death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 40 patients will be accrued for this study over 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically or cytologically confirmed advanced malignant oral
        or laryngeal neoplasm requiring regional radiotherapy and not amenable to standard therapy
        Tumor site amenable to radiotherapy

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: ECOG 0-2 Life expectancy:
        Expected 2 year survival less than 10% in previously untreated patients Hematopoietic: WBC
        at least 3,000/mm3 Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3 Hepatic: Not specified Renal:
        Creatinine clearance at least 50 mL/min Other: No severe infection or medical illness that
        would preclude study Must be able to swallow and retain oral medications Not pregnant

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: Recovered from
        prior chemotherapy Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: Recovered from prior
        radiotherapy Surgery: Not specified
      
