TITLE:
Phase II Placebo Controlled Study of Thalidomide in Patients With Mycobacterial and HIV Infections

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
thalidomide

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate whether thalidomide modulates toxic host inflammatory responses in
      patients receiving antitubercular therapy.

      II. Evaluate whether thalidomide modifies tumor necrosis factor-mediated toxic symptoms of
      HIV and mycobacterial infections, and limits progression of HIV immunodeficiency.

      III. Evaluate whether thalidomide stimulates immunity in patients with HIV and/or
      mycobacterial infections.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double blind study. Patients are stratified by type
      of infection.

      Patients are randomly assigned to oral thalidomide or placebo. Therapy is administered daily
      for up to 8 weeks, beginning the night before antitubercular treatment is initiated.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        PROTOCOL ENTRY CRITERIA:

        --Disease Characteristics--

        Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or mycobacterial infection that requires at least 10
        days of inpatient antitubercular treatment

        Mycobacterial infection confirmed by positive acid-fast bacilli smear or culture for
        Mycobacterium tuberculosis

        At least 1 of the following signs and symptoms required:

          -  Temperature over 38 degrees C on at least 2 occasions within 1 week prior to
             treatment

          -  Weight loss greater than 5 kg

          -  Pulmonary involvement in at least 1 lobe on x-ray

        Night sweats on at least 2 occasions within 1 week prior to treatment

        --Prior/Concurrent Therapy--

        Concurrent rifampicin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol for tuberculosis allowed

        --Patient Characteristics--

          -  No neuropathy and not at risk for neuropathy

          -  Not pregnant

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception during and for 4 weeks after study
      
