TITLE:
Cytarabine and UCN-01 in Treating Patients With Refractory or Relapsed Acute Myelogenous Leukemia or Myelodysplastic Syndrome

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
7-hydroxystaurosporine (UCN-01)

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. UCN-01 may make cancer cells more sensitive to cytarabine.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of cytarabine and UCN-01 in treating
      patients who have refractory or relapsed acute myelogenous leukemia or myelodysplastic
      syndrome.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of cytarabine when combined with UCN-01
      in patients with refractory or relapsed acute myelogenous leukemia or myelodysplastic
      syndrome. II. Determine the dose limiting toxicity, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics
      of this regimen in these patients. III. Assess the antileukemia effect of this regimen in
      this patient population.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation, multicenter study of cytarabine. Patients receive
      cytarabine IV over 24 hours on days 1-4 of each course. Patients receive UCN-01 IV over 24
      hours on days 2-4 of course 1 and over 36 hours beginning on day 2 of subsequent courses.
      Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for a maximum of 4 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of
      cytarabine until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the
      dose at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicity.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. 1. Patients with refractory or relapsed acute myelogenous leukemia, or
             myelodysplastic syndromes (RAEB or RAEB-T).

          2. 2. Performance status of =< 2

          3. 3. Signed informed consent indicating that patients are aware of the investigational
             nature of this study in keeping with the policies of the hospital. The only
             acceptable consent form is the one attached at the end of this protocol for each
             participating institution.

          4. 4. Patients must have been off chemotherapy for 2 weeks prior to entering this study
             and recovered from the toxic effects of that therapy, unless there is evidence of
             rapidly progressive disease.

          5. 5. Bilirubin and creatinine (or creatinine clearance) should be within institutional
             normal limits.

          6. 6. Patients must have relapsed or failed to respond after high-dose ara-C-based
             (>=1g/m2/day x 3 days) chemotherapy.

          7. 7. Corrected DLCO >50%.

          8. 8. Patients with >=3 cardiac risk factors (smoking, hypertension, family history of
             coronary artery disease, diabetes mellitus, hypercholesterolemia) should have a
             nuclear medicine stress test.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. 1. The anti-proliferative activity of the experimental drug may be harmful to the
             developing fetus or nursing infant. Therefore, pregnant and nursing females will be
             excluded. Patients of childbearing potential should practice effective methods of
             contraception.

          2. 2. Patients who are eligible for allogeneic marrow transplant and who have a donor
             will be offered transplant.

          3. 3. Patients with existing pulmonary diseases, history of coronary artery disease or
             who have received radiotherapy to the mediastinum.
      
