TITLE:
Carboplatin With or Without Thalidomide in Treating Patients With Ovarian Epithelial Cancer

CONDITION:
Ovarian Cancer

INTERVENTION:
carboplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Thalidomide may stop the growth of ovarian cancer by stopping
      blood flow to the tumor.

      PURPOSE: This randomized phase II trial is studying how well giving carboplatin together
      with thalidomide works compared to carboplatin alone in treating patients with ovarian
      epithelial cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety of carboplatin and thalidomide in patients with stage IC-IV
           ovarian cancer.

        -  Determine the antiangiogenic effect of thalidomide in this patient population.

        -  Compare the efficacy of carboplatin with or without thalidomide in this patient
           population.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour. Treatment continues every 4 weeks
           for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive carboplatin as in arm I. Patients receive thalidomide orally
           once daily. Thalidomide treatment continues for up to 24 weeks commencing on the first
           day of carboplatin therapy and ceasing 4 weeks after the last course of carboplatin.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed stage IC-IV ovarian epithelial cancer

          -  Post-menopausal OR

          -  Prior bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and/or total abdominal hysterectomy

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  Over 18

        Performance status:

          -  WHO 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No other concurrent invasive malignancies

          -  Not pregnant

          -  No diabetes mellitus

          -  No chronic neurological disease causing peripheral neuropathy

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No other concurrent cytotoxic agents

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Concurrent local radiotherapy for treatment of secondary disease sites allowed

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics
      
