TITLE:
Carboplatin, Paclitaxel, and Radiation Therapy With or Without Thalidomide in Patients With Stage III Non-small Cell Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Lung Cancer

INTERVENTION:
carboplatin

SUMMARY:

      This randomized phase III trial is studying carboplatin, paclitaxel, radiation therapy, and
      thalidomide to see how well they work compared to carboplatin, paclitaxel, and radiation
      therapy alone in treating patients with newly diagnosed stage III non-small cell lung
      cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so
      they stop growing or die. Thalidomide may stop the growth of non-small cell lung cancer by
      stopping blood flow to the tumor. It is not yet known if combination chemotherapy plus
      radiation therapy is more effective with or without thalidomide.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the survival and time to progression of patients with stage IIIA or IIIB
      non-small cell lung cancer when treated with carboplatin, paclitaxel, and chemoradiotherapy
      with or without thalidomide.

      II. Evaluate the toxicity of the thalidomide-containing regimen and compare response rates
      of the two groups.

      III. Determine whether the inactivation of p16, Death-associated protein kinase
      (DAP-kinase), O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) gene, or tissue-inhibitor of
      metalloproteinase 3 (TIMP-3) genes can be used to predict survival in these patients treated
      with this regimen.

      IV. Determine whether the detection of a methylation biomarker in serum can be used to
      predict survival in these patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to disease histology
      (squamous vs nonsquamous), performance status (0 vs 1), disease stage (IIIA vs IIIB), and
      time of randomization (before addition of chemoradiotherapy vs after). Patients are
      randomized to one of two treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 3 hours immediately followed by
      carboplatin IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1 and 22. Treatment continues every 22 days in the
      absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      ARM B: Patients receive paclitaxel and carboplatin as in arm A. Patients also receive oral
      thalidomide and oral low-dose aspirin daily beginning on day 1 for up to 24 months in the
      absence of disease progression.

      Beginning between days 43-50, patients in both arms with stable or responding disease
      receive chemoradiotherapy comprising paclitaxel IV over 1 hour and carboplatin IV over 15-30
      minutes once weekly for 6 weeks and radiotherapy (RT) 5 days a week for 6 weeks. Arm B
      patients continue oral thalidomide.

      Patients are followed every 2 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Histologically confirmed newly diagnosed non-small cell bronchogenic carcinoma

               -  Squamous cell

               -  Adenocarcinoma

               -  Large cell undifferentiated

               -  Bronchoalveolar

               -  Non-small cell carcinoma not otherwise stated

          -  Unresectable stage IIIA

               -  Mediastinal lymph node enlargement of at least 1 cm but less than 2 cm on
                  computed tomography (CT) scans must have mediastinotomy or thoracoscopy to rule
                  out resectability

        OR

          -  Stage IIIB disease without significant pleural effusion

               -  Seen on CT scan only (not seen on chest x-ray) or does not reaccumulate after 1
                  thoracentesis and is cytologically negative

               -  Metastases to contralateral, mediastinal, or supraclavicular nodes allowed

          -  Bidimensionally measurable or evaluable disease

          -  18 and over

          -  ECOG performance status 0-1

          -  Adequate hematopoietic, hepatic, and renal function obtained <=4 weeks prior to
             registration:

               -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

               -  White Blood Cell (WBC) count at least 4,000/mm^3 OR absolute neutrophil count at
                  least 2,000/mm^3

               -  Bilirubin normal

               -  Serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT) no greater than 2.5 times upper
                  limit of normal

               -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 mg/dL OR creatinine clearance at least 60 mL/min

          -  Fertile patients must use 2 methods of effective contraception for 4 weeks prior to,
             during, and for 4 weeks after study therapy

          -  Concurrent filgrastim (G-CSF) allowed for persistent neutropenia

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Positive pregnancy test,pregnant or nursing

          -  Uncontrolled high blood pressure, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or
             myocardial infarction within the prior year

          -  Serious cardiac arrhythmias requiring medication

          -  Prior radiotherapy to only area of measurable or active tumor

          -  Less than 5 years since prior chemotherapy

          -  Other active malignancies

          -  Serious uncontrolled active infection

          -  Evidence of greater than grade 1 neuropathy by history or physical examination

          -  History of seizure disorders

          -  Contraindication to daily low-dose (81 mg/day) aspirin
      
