TITLE:
A Phase III Study Comparing Two Different Anti-HIV Drug Combinations in HIV-Positive Patients Without Previous Anti-HIV Drug Therapy

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Lopinavir/Ritonavir

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to see how safe a new protease inhibitor (PI) is and how well
      it fights HIV infection. A PI is a drug that stops HIV from using healthy cells to make more
      virus. This study will compare the new PI combination of ABT-378 plus ritonavir (RTV) with
      another PI, nelfinavir (NFV).

      Earlier studies suggest ABT-378/RTV will be just as good as and perhaps better than NFV at
      fighting HIV infection.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Based on the accumulated studies to date, it is expected that ABT-378/ritonavir will provide
      efficacy that is at least as good as (or superior to) nelfinavir when used in combination
      with reverse transcriptase inhibitors.

      Patients are equally randomized to one of two treatment arms. In one arm, approximately 330
      patients receive ABT-378/ritonavir plus nelfinavir placebo. In the other arm, approximately
      330 patients receive nelfinavir plus ABT-378/ritonavir placebo. In both arms, these protease
      inhibitors are blinded to the investigator, patient, and sponsor. Both arms receive
      open-label stavudine and lamivudine. Vital sign measurements, physical examinations, ECGs,
      routine clinical laboratory evaluations, and determinations of antiviral and immunologic
      activity are performed at intervals throughout the study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 12 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        You may be eligible for this trial if you:

          -  Are HIV positive.

          -  Have a viral load (level of HIV in your blood) of more than 400 copies/ml.

          -  Are age 12 or older.

          -  Agree to practice abstinence or use effective methods of birth control during the
             study.

        Exclusion Criteria

        You will not be eligible for this trial if you:

          -  Have taken anti-HIV drugs for more than 14 days in the past, or if you have ever
             taken d4T or 3TC.

          -  Are seriously ill or have an AIDS-related infection.

          -  Are pregnant or breast-feeding.

          -  Are taking certain medications.
      
