TITLE:
Biomed 101 and Interleukin-2 in Treating Patients With Kidney Cancer

CONDITION:
Drug Extravasation

INTERVENTION:
aldesleukin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Interleukin-2 may stimulate a person's white blood cells to kill kidney cancer
      cells. Biomed 101 may protect normal cells from the side effects of interleukin-2.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of Biomed 101 in treating patients
      receiving interleukin-2 for kidney cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate the safety and maximum tolerated dose of Biomed 101 in patients with
      renal cell cancer currently treated with interleukin-2 (IL-2). II. Evaluate the effect of
      different doses of Biomed 101 on the incidence and severity of IL-2 related toxicities and
      on the incidence and frequency of IL-2 dose reduction due to IL-2 induced toxicity.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of Biomed 101. Patients receive oral Biomed 101
      three times daily, followed by interleukin-2 IV on days 1-5 and 16-20. Cohorts of 5 patients
      receive escalating doses of Biomed 101 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined.
      The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2 of 5 patients experience
      dose limiting toxicities. Patients are followed for 1 month.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed renal cell cancer No CNS metastases

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: ECOG 0-1 Life expectancy: At
        least 12 weeks Hematopoietic: WBC at least 2,000/mm3 Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3
        Hemoglobin at least 9 g/dL Hepatic: No hepatic failure No encephalopathy Bilirubin no
        greater than 2.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN) AST or ALT no greater than 2.5 times
        ULN Renal: No renal dysfunction requiring dialysis for greater than 72 hours Creatinine no
        greater than 2.0 mg/dL Cardiovascular: No history of sustained ventricular tachycardia
        (greater than 5 beats) No uncontrolled cardiac rhythm disturbances No recurrent chest pain
        with echocardiogram changes No angina No myocardial infarction No pericardial tamponade No
        moderate or severe coronary artery disease (New York Heart Association class 3 or 4)
        Other: Not pregnant or nursing Negative pregnancy test Fertile patients must use effective
        contraception No significant neurological dysfunction including seizure or clinical signs
        of other significant neurological disease No gastrointestinal bleeding requiring surgery
        No concurrent infection requiring antimicrobial therapy No bowel ischemia or perforation

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: At least 30 days since prior investigational drugs No other
        concurrent investigational drugs No intubation required for greater than 72 hours No prior
        enrollment in this study
      
