TITLE:
Phase III Randomized Study of Diazepam Vs Lorazepam Vs Placebo for Prehospital Treatment of Status Epilepticus

CONDITION:
Status Epilepticus

INTERVENTION:
diazepam

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the efficacy, onset of clinical anticonvulsant activity, and
      complications of diazepam and lorazepam given intravenously as prehospital therapy to
      patients in status epilepticus.

      II. Determine the effect of prehospital therapy on the incidence of status epilepticus at
      the subsequent emergency department admission.

      III. Establish whether prehospital therapy alters hospital management of these patients and
      ultimately affects patient outcome.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double blind, multicenter study. Patients are
      stratified by center.

      Patients en route to the hospital in a San Francisco Department of Health Paramedic Division
      ambulance are randomly assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups. Informed consent is waived due
      to impaired consciousness.

      Patients receive intravenous diazepam, lorazepam, or placebo during transport. The patient
      is re-treated if the seizure is sustained after the first dose or recurs after the first
      dose without the patient regaining consciousness.

      Upon arrival at the hospital, all patients receive the standard status epilepticus treatment
      in use at that site.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        PROTOCOL ENTRY CRITERIA:

        --Disease Characteristics-- Status epilepticus with at least 5 minutes of sustained
        seizure activity with a depressed level of consciousness, or 2 or more discrete seizures
        without recovery or consciousness between seizures Verified by bystander or observed by
        paramedic from San Francisco Department of Health --Prior/Concurrent Therapy-- No chronic
        benzodiazepines for seizure disorder --Patient Characteristics-- Cardiovascular: Systolic
        blood pressure at least 100 mm Hg No second- or third- degree atrioventricular block No
        sustained ectopic tachyrhythmia Pulse rate between 60 and 150 No severe myocardial
        insufficiency No hypovolemic, cardiogenic, or obstructive shock Pulmonary: No history of
        asthma No history of chronic obstructive airway disease No history of limited pulmonary
        reserve Other: No allergy or prior sensitivity to benzodiazepines No distributive shock
        (e.g., septic, neurogenic, or anaphylactic)
      
