TITLE:
Biological Therapy in Treating Patients Undergoing Radiation Therapy, Chemotherapy, and Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation for Hematologic Cancer

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Biological therapy using growth factors may be effective in reducing side effects
      in patients who have hematologic cancer and are receiving radiation therapy, chemotherapy,
      and peripheral stem cell transplantation.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase II trial to study the effectiveness of biological therapy to
      reduce side effects in patients who are undergoing radiation therapy, chemotherapy, and
      peripheral stem cell transplantation in treating lymphoma or leukemia.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the efficacy of recombinant human keratinocyte growth factor
      (rHuKGF) in reducing severe oral mucositis induced by total body irradiation and high dose
      chemotherapy in patients with hematologic malignancies. II. Compare the incidence of severe
      oral mucositis, the use of transdermal or perenteral opioid analgesics, and the incidence
      and duration of grade 2-4 diarrhea with or without rHuKGF in these patients. III. Determine
      the quality of life of these patients. IV. Determine the duration of febrile neutropenia and
      the duration of treatment with intravenous antifungals or antibiotics in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to center. Patients are randomized to one of three treatment arms.
      Arm I: Patients receive recombinant human keratinocyte growth factor (rHuKGF) IV on days -11
      to -9, -5, and 0 to 2. Total body irradiation (TBI) is administered twice a day on days -8
      to -5. Patients receive etoposide IV over 4 hours on day -4 and cyclophosphamide IV over 1
      hour on day -2 (some patients may receive an alternate regimen of ifosfamide IV over 1 hour
      on days-4 to 0 followed each day by etoposide IV over 23 hours). Filgrastim (G-CSF) is
      administered subcutaneously (SQ) beginning on day 0 and continuing for up to 21 days until
      blood counts recover. Autologous peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are infused on day 0.
      Arm II: Patients receive rHuKGF on days -11 to -9 and -5 as in arm I. Placebo is
      administered on days 0 to 2. TBI, chemotherapy, and PBSC transplantation are administered as
      in arm I. Arm III: Patients receive placebo on days -11 to -9, -5, and 0 to 2. TBI,
      chemotherapy, and PBSC transplantation are administered as in arm I. Quality of life is
      assessed prior to treatment, daily during therapy and until day 28 after transplantation.
      Patients are followed at day 28 and approximately day 60-100.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: At least 111 patients (37 per arm) will be accrued for this study within
      15 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Diagnosis of one of the following: Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
        Hodgkin's disease Acute myelogenous leukemia Acute lymphoblastic leukemia Chronic
        myelogenous leukemia Chronic lymphocytic leukemia Eligible for fractionated total body
        irradiation plus high dose chemotherapy followed by autologous peripheral blood stem cell
        support No prior entry into this study

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 to 65 Performance status: Karnofsky 70-100% SWOG 0 or 1
        Life expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: Absolute neutrophil count greater than
        1,000/mm3 Platelet count greater than 100,000/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than 2
        mg/dL Renal: Creatinine no greater than 2 mg/dL Cardiovascular: No New York Heart
        Association class III or IV heart disease Pulmonary: DLCO at least 60% predicted Other: No
        other prior or concurrent malignancy No active infection or oral mucositis No diabetes
        mellitus requiring insulin HIV negative No sensitivity to E. coli derived products Not
        pregnant or nursing Negative pregnancy test Fertile patients must use effective
        contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: See Disease Characteristics No prior bone
        marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplantation No concurrent interleukin-11
        Chemotherapy: See Disease Characteristics No other concurrent chemotherapy Endocrine
        therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: See Disease Characteristics No prior extensive
        radiotherapy that would preclude study irradiation Surgery: Not specified Other: At least
        30 days since prior investigational study No other concurrent investigational agents No
        concurrent prophylactic oral cryotherapy during study chemotherapy
      
