TITLE:
Fludarabine Followed by Alemtuzumab in Treating Patients With Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
alemtuzumab

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Monoclonal antibodies such as alemtuzumab can locate cancer
      cells and either kill them or deliver cancer-killing substances to them without harming
      normal cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of fludarabine followed by alemtuzumab in
      treating patients who have chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the overall response rate of previously untreated patients with
      stage I, II, III, or IV B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia when treated with fludarabine
      induction followed by alemtuzumab consolidation. II. Determine the infectious toxic effects
      and feasibility of this regimen in this patient population. III. Determine the
      treatment-related toxic effects, including infection and injection site reactions, of
      subcutaneous vs intravenous alemtuzumab in patients treated with this regimen. IV. Determine
      the progression-free and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen. V.
      Determine the immunologic effects of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes 5 days a week. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression. Patients undergo clinical
      staging after completion of course 4 of fludarabine followed by 2 months of observation.
      Patients with stable or responding disease receive alemtuzumab subcutaneously 3 days a week
      for 6 weeks. Patients undergo clinical staging again after completion of 6 weeks of
      alemtuzumab followed by 2 more months of observation. Patients are followed every 3 months
      for 1 year and then every 6 months for 8 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        1. Specific Diagnosis of B-Cell CLL

             1.1 An absolute lymphocytosis of > 5,000/l

             1.1.1 Morphologically, the lymphocytes must appear mature with < 55% prolymphocytes.

             1.1.2 Bone marrow examination must include at least a unilateral aspirate and biopsy.
             The aspirate smear must show > 30% of all nucleated cells to be lymphoid or the bone
             marrow core biopsy must show lymphoid infiltrates compatible with marrow involvement
             by CLL. The overall cellularity must be normocellular or hypercellular.

             1.1.3 Local institution lymphocyte phenotype must reveal a predominant B-cell
             monoclonal population sharing a B-cell marker (CD19, CD20, CD23, CD24) with the CD5
             antigen, in the absence of other pan-T-cell markers. Additionally, the B-cells must
             be monoclonal with regard to expression of either  or  and have surface
             immunoglobulin expression of low density. Patients with bright surface immunoglobulin
             levels must have CD23 co-expression.

             1.2 Staging

             1.2.1 Patients must be in the intermediate- or high-risk categories of the modified
             three-stage Rai staging system (i.e., stages I, II, III, or IV) per the protocol.

             1.2.2 Patients in the intermediate-risk group must have evidence of active disease as
             demonstrated by at least one of the following criteria:

               -  Massive or progressive splenomegaly and/or lymphadenopathy

               -  Presence of weight loss > 10% over the preceding 6 month period;

               -  Grade 2 or 3 fatigue

               -  Fevers > 100.5C or night sweats for greater than 2 weeks without evidence of
                  infection

               -  Progressive lymphocytosis with an increase of > 50% over a 2 month period or an
                  anticipated doubling time of less than 6 months.

          2. Prior Treatment: No prior therapy for CLL including corticosteroids for autoimmune
             complications that have developed since the initial diagnosis of CLL.

          3. No medical condition requiring chronic use of oral corticosteroids.

          4. Age 18 years.

          5. Performance Status 0 - 2.

          6. No HIV disease. Due to alterations in host immunity, patients with HIV may not be
             enrolled.

          7. Non-pregnant and non-nursing. Due to the unknown teratogenic potential of Campath-1H,
             pregnant or nursing women may not be enrolled. Women and men of reproductive
             potential should agree to use an effective means of birth control.

          8. Initial Required Laboratory Values:

        Creatinine <1.5 x upper limit of institutional normal value Coomb's Testing NEGATIVE
      
