TITLE:
Radiation Therapy Plus Doxorubicin in Treating Patients With Resectable Primary or Recurrent Retroperitoneal Soft Tissue Sarcoma

CONDITION:
Sarcoma

INTERVENTION:
Doxorubicin hydrochloride (DOX)

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Drugs used in
      chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or
      die. Combining radiation therapy with chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of radiation therapy plus doxorubicin in
      treating patients who have resectable primary or recurrent peritoneal soft tissue sarcoma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the toxicity and maximum tolerated dose of preoperative external
      beam radiotherapy when combined with doxorubicin and followed by intraoperative radiotherapy
      in patients with resectable primary or recurrent soft tissue sarcoma of the retroperitoneum.
      II. Assess radiologic and pathologic response in patients treated with this preoperative
      regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of external beam radiotherapy. Patients receive
      doxorubicin IV bolus followed immediately by doxorubicin IV over 4 days every week for 5
      weeks concurrently with external beam radiotherapy 5 days a week for 4 weeks. Patients with
      stable or responding disease undergo surgical resection of primary tumor and all adjacent
      gross disease approximately 6 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy. Patients receive
      intraoperative radiotherapy (IORT) to the tumor bed if all gross disease has been resected
      and if the area of maximal tumor adherence to the retroperitoneum can be encompassed within
      a single IORT field (maximum 15 cm). Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of
      external beam radiotherapy until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is
      defined as the dose at which 30% of patients experience grade 3 or worse dose-limiting
      toxicity.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15-45 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically or cytologically proven resectable primary or
        recurrent soft tissue sarcoma of the retroperitoneum Greatest dimension of the
        3-dimensional assessment of tumor size must be 5-35 cm Grade 2 or 3, including
        dedifferentiated liposarcoma and retroperitoneal recurrences of gastrointestinal
        leiomyosarcoma

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: Karnofsky 70-100% Zubrod 0
        or 1 Life expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: Absolute neutrophil count greater than
        2,000/mm3 Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3 Hepatic: Not specified Renal: Renal function
        normal Creatinine less than 1.6 mg/dL Gastrointestinal: Must maintain adequate oral
        nutrition (90-100% of estimated need for calories and protein) and be free of nausea and
        vomiting prior to radiotherapy (feeding tube allowed) Other: Prior malignancy allowed at
        the discretion of the protocol investigator No other serious uncontrolled medical
        condition Not pregnant or nursing Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: Not specified
        Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: No prior abdominal radiotherapy Surgery:
        See Disease Characteristics
      
