TITLE:
Phase I/II Randomized, Placebo-Controlled Study of Capsaicin for Interstitial Cystitis and Vulvar Vestibulitis

CONDITION:
Interstitial Cystitis

INTERVENTION:
capsaicin

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Estimate the optimal safe dose of intravesical capsaicin in patients with
      interstitial cystitis.

      II. Evaluate the efficacy of 0.025% topical capsaicin in relieving chronic burning pain in
      patients with vulvar vestibulitis.

      III. Evaluate the effect of capsaicin on type C nerve fibers in bladder mucosa and vulvar
      skin.

      IV. Evaluate the effect of C fiber depletion on urinary levels of histamine and
      prostaglandin.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients with interstitial cystitis are
      randomly assigned to 1 of 3 pain control therapies.

      The first group is treated with capsaicin. A second group is given individually titrated
      doses of capsaicin: the dose is increased as tolerated or until symptomatic response is
      acceptable. A control group receives a placebo. Therapy for all groups is administered
      intravesically every week for 5 weeks.

      Patients with vulvar vestibulitis are randomly assigned to 1 of 2 pain control therapies.
      One group applies topical capsaicin cream to the painful area 4 times a day for 6 weeks. The
      dose is individually titrated if burning discomfort persists and the patient is compliant
      with the application schedule. The control group applies a placebo.

      Patients with vulvar vestibulitis may continue or cross to capsaicin for 6 additional weeks.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        PROTOCOL ENTRY CRITERIA:

        --Disease Characteristics-- Women with interstitial cystitis by National Institute of
        Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases criteria Vulvar vestibulitis by International
        Society for the Study of Vulvar Disease, i.e.: Severe pain on touch or attempted entry of
        vagina Tenderness to pressure within the vulvar vestibule Vulvar erythema Duration of
        symptoms at least 6 months Absence of vulvovaginal infection, i.e.: No fungus No
        trichomonas No chlamydia No gonorrhea No "clue cells" in vaginal discharge
      
