TITLE:
Safety and Effectiveness of Nitazoxanide for the Treatment of Cryptosporidiosis in AIDS Patients

CONDITION:
Cryptosporidiosis

INTERVENTION:
Nitazoxanide

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to see if it is safe and effective to treat cryptosporidiosis
      in AIDS patients with nitazoxanide.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients take nitazoxanide daily for 8 weeks with a dose escalation after the first 4 weeks.
      Patients return to the hospital for examinations every 2 weeks during the 8-week treatment
      period and 6-week follow-up. Nitazoxanide therapy is discontinued in patients showing a
      complete clinical and parasitologic response (therapeutic cure) after 8 weeks of treatment
      and in patients showing a therapeutic cure at two consecutive visits (Weeks 2 and 4 or Weeks
      4 and 6). These patients undergo a physical examination including stool analysis for
      Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts and routine laboratory tests at Weeks 2, 4, and 6 after
      completion of nitazoxanide therapy. Patients who do not show a complete clinical and
      parasitologic response (therapeutic failure) after 8 weeks of treatment are allowed to
      remain on nitazoxanide therapy through the Open Label Compassionate Use of Nitazoxanide in
      Treatment of Cryptosporidiosis in AIDS Patients (UMD-95-009) protocol.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients may be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are HIV-positive.

          -  Have a CD4 cell count of 50 cells/mm3 or less.

          -  Have evidence of cryptosporidium infection in their stool sample within 10 days of
             study entry.

          -  Have watery stools at least three times a day at least 5 days a week for 21 days
             prior to enrollment.

          -  Are able to take medications by mouth.

          -  Are at least 13 years old (consent of parent or guardian required if under 18).

          -  Agree to use an effective method of birth control (such as condoms) during the study.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Patients will not be eligible if they:

          -  Have certain diseases or infections of the intestines.

          -  Have ever taken nitazoxanide.

          -  Have taken certain experimental drugs within 14 days of enrollment.

          -  Will need to take certain other medications during the study such as paromomycin,
             azithromycin, and clarithromycin.

          -  Have started a new anti-HIV therapy within 4 weeks of study entry or plan on starting
             one during the study.

          -  Are pregnant or breast-feeding.
      
