TITLE:
The Inhibition of Platelet Antiaggregating Activity of Clopidogrel by Atorvastatin Detected by Erythromycin Breath Test: a Metabolic Inhibition of Hepatic Cytochrome P450-3A

CONDITION:
Hypercholesterolemia

INTERVENTION:
Clopidogrel

SUMMARY:

      The objective of this study is to determine if the action of the drug called clopidogrel,
      that you will start taking, will be decreased by another drug called atorvastatin, that you
      will also start taking. Clopidogrel is an oral antiplatelet agent that has been shown to
      prevent strokes and heart attacks. Atorvastatin is a cholesterol lowering agent.

      Twenty adults 18-75 years of age requiring cholesterol-lowering agent and antiplatelet agent
      therapy will be recruited for this study during their cardiology clinic visitation. In one
      group, antiplatelet agent (clopidogrel) regimen will be administered first, then followed by
      cholesterol-lowering medication (atorvastatin). In the second group, atorvastatin will be
      administered first, followed by clopidogrel.

      A new test called the erythromycin breath test will be administered to you three times
      during the study to measure how your liver will metabolize these drugs. Blood samples will
      also be obtained to assess platelet function. The criteria for exclusion are patient refusal
      or inability to give written consent, patients with allergic reaction to erythromycin,
      patients with known bleeding problems, liver disease, significant lung disease kidney
      disease and pregnancy. Patients with psychiatric impairment and documented history of
      substance abuse will also be excluded from the study.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Males and females age 18-75 years of age without bias in racial and ethnic
             background, undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention requiring antiplatelet
             therapy: 1. Patients presented to cardiology clinic requiring cholesterol lowering
             agent 2. Patients presented to cardiology clinic requiring antiplatelet agent.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Refusal or inability to give written consent

          -  Allergic reaction to erythromycin

          -  Have known bleeding problems, liver disease, significant lung disease kidney disease

          -  Pregnancy

          -  Psychiatric impairment and documented history of substance abuse
      
