TITLE:
Study of Nutritional Factors in Porphyria

CONDITION:
Porphyria

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine whether differences in dietary habits are associated with disease
      activity in patients with acute intermittent porphyria.

      II. Determine whether premenstrual porphyria attacks are associated with increased luteal
      phase energy requirements.

      III. Determine whether energy requirements are higher than intakes in men with unexplained
      frequent porphyria attacks.

      IV. Assess the nutritional status of women with acute intermittent porphyria using a
      comprehensive series of laboratory methods, including zinc and pyridoxine status.

      V. Determine whether the frequency of disease exacerbations decreases when dietary and
      nutritional abnormalities are corrected in these patients.

      VI. Evaluate the safety and efficacy of a parenteral nutrition regimen for patients with
      acute porphyria attacks.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: Women record diet intake for at least 1 cycle (28 days), then undergo a
      comprehensive nutritional assessment at least once during the follicular and luteal phases
      of the cycle.

      Men also record diet intake for at least 1 month and undergo indirect calorimetry and other
      studies.

      All patients receive a comprehensive analysis of diet and energy metabolism. Energy
      expenditure, resting metabolic rates, and basal metabolic rates are determined with indirect
      calorimetry, including measurements taken during the follicular and luteal phases of the
      cycle. Other testing includes hormone assays, serology for nutritional studies, and a
      urinary metabolite profile. Zinc, lead, and other metals are measured by atomic absorption
      spectroscopy.

      The diagnosis of acute intermittent porphyria is confirmed by erythrocyte porphobilinogen
      deaminase; urinary aminolevulinic acid, porphobilinogen, and porphyrins; and total fecal
      porphyrins.

      Patients hospitalized for acute attacks of porphyria during the study will receive standard
      treatment, including intravenous hematin and parenteral support.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        -  Acute intermittent porphyria

          -  Variegate porphyria and hereditary coproporphyria eligible but analyzed separately
      
