TITLE:
Study of Recombinant Human Insulin-Like Growth Factor I in Patients With Severe Insulin Resistance

CONDITION:
Insulin Resistance

INTERVENTION:
insulin-like growth factor I

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the efficacy and toxic effects of recombinant human insulin-like
      growth factor I (rhIGF-I) on carbohydrate tolerance, insulin action, insulin secretion,
      hyperandrogenism, and hyperlipidemia in patients with severe insulin resistance who have
      failed other therapies.

      II. Determine the dose and time response of rhIGF-I on carbohydrate homeostasis and
      secondary abnormalities in this patient population.

      III. Determine the effect of rhIGF-I on insulin clearance, the regulation of insulin-like
      growth factor binding protein 1, the regulation of sex hormone binding globulin, and
      hypothalamic pituitary gonadal axis in this patient population.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This is an open label study. Patients receive the first dose of
      subcutaneous recombinant human insulin-like growth factor I (rhIGF-I) on day 7.

      Patients receive rhIGF-I twice daily 15-30 minutes before breakfast and dinner, and are
      hospitalized for the first week of therapy. Patients return for an outpatient exam on day 19
      of rhIGF-I therapy. Approximately 30 days into the therapy, patients are readmitted to the
      clinical center for repeat screening tests. Patients then receive maintenance therapy of
      rhIGF-I for up to 6-12 months. A washout period follows the maintenance therapy phase.

      Patients are followed weekly, biweekly, or monthly depending on blood glucose response of
      patients off rhIGF-I therapy. Weekly phone contact with study coordinator is mandatory
      during this time.

      Completion date provided represents the completion date of the grant per OOPD records
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 14 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        PROTOCOL ENTRY CRITERIA:

        --Disease Characteristics--

          -  Hematologically proven severe insulin resistance with or without diabetes

          -  Fasting insulin greater than 40 U/mL

          -  Post glucose insulin greater than 300 U/mL (unless overt diabetes mellitus is
             present)

        --Prior/Concurrent Therapy--

        Endocrine therapy: No concurrent oral hypoglycemic agents and/or insulin

        Other: No concurrent birth control pills

        --Patient Characteristics--

          -  Not pregnant

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Effective barrier contraceptive method must be used by fertile patients

          -  Good health
      
