TITLE:
Randomized Study of Photodynamic Therapy Using Dihematoporphyrin in Patients With Corneal Neovascularization

CONDITION:
Corneal Neovascularization

INTERVENTION:
Dihematoporphyrin derivative

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Demonstrate the safety and efficacy of dihematoporphyrin derivative (DHP) in laser
      photodynamic therapy (PDT) in patients with corneal neovascularization.

      II. Document the histopathologic mechanism of action in selected patients undergoing
      penetrating keratoplasty following PDT therapy for corneal neovascularization.

      III. Facilitate FDA product approval of DHP as a photosensitizing agent for laser treatment
      in these patients.

      IV. Explore the use of this photosensitizer for ocular and cutaneous basal cell and squamous
      cell carcinoma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE:

      This is a randomized, placebo controlled study.

      Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms:

      Arm I: Patients receive topical dihematoporphyrin derivative (DHP) every 3 hours on days -3
      and -2. Patients undergo laser surgery on day 0. After photodynamic (PDT) therapy, patients
      receive topical prednisolone phosphate four times a day for 90 days. Ninety days following
      PDT, patients may undergo corneal transplantation.

      Arm II: Patients receive placebo topical gel and undergo sham laser surgery following arm I
      schedule, then receive topical prednisolone phosphate four times a day for 90 days. Patients
      may be crossed over to arm I if disease progression is observed.

      Arm III: Patients receive a compressed 1 day schedule of DHP with 5 doses in the morning and
      then undergo laser surgery in the evening.

      Patients are assessed on days 1, 7, 30, and 90 after PDT therapy.

      Completion date provided represents the completion date of the grant per OOPD records
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 12 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        -  Histologically proven corneal neovascularization (CNV): Must have at least 1 quadrant
             of significant CNV, which is due to bacterial, viral, parasitic, or fungal keratitis;
             alkaline acid or hydrocarbon chemical burns; ocular trauma and injury; severe ocular
             surface disease; or previous surgery with complications such as corneal allograft
             rejection are eligible

          -  No concurrent systemic steroids

          -  No concurrent immunosuppressive therapy

          -  Not pregnant or nursing; Negative pregnancy test; Fertile patients must use effective
             contraception; HIV negative; No rheumatoid arthritis; No congenital corneal scars; No
             active ocular infection or inflammation; No other active systemic collagen vascular
             disease; No uncontrolled glaucoma; No history of porphyrin allergies; Visual acuity
             of 20/400 or better in contralateral eye
      
