TITLE:
MRI and CT Scans to Evaluate Invasive Cervical Cancer Before Treating Patients

CONDITION:
Cervical Cancer

INTERVENTION:
iodinated contrast dye

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Imaging procedures such as MRI or CT scans may improve the ability to detect
      cervical cancer and determine the extent of disease.

      PURPOSE: Diagnostic trial to determine the effectiveness of MRI and CT scans in evaluating
      invasive cervical cancer before treatment of patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the diagnostic performance of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed
           tomography (CT), and clinical FIGO staging in patients with invasive cervical cancer.

        -  Compare the accuracy of MRI, CT, and clinical FIGO staging in the evaluation of
           morphologic tumor prognostic factors in FIGO stage IB1 and stage IB2 and greater in
           these patients.

        -  Examine the value of imaging assessment of tumor prognostic factors (alone or in
           combination) as predictors of recurrence within 2 years of surgery in these patients.

        -  Evaluate the quality of life in the 12-month period after staging and treatment to
           potentially change staging accuracy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients undergo a computed tomography scan with iodinated contrast dye followed by a
      magnetic resonance imaging scan with or without contrast comprising gadopentetate
      dimeglumine or vice versa.

      Within 6 weeks of first protocol imaging study, patients undergo one of the following
      surgeries:

        -  Laparoscopic, transabdominal, or transvaginal hysterectomy

        -  Extrafascial total abdominal hysterectomy

        -  Trachelectomy Quality of life is assessed at 1 and 12 months.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 465 patients will be accrued for this study within 18 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed invasive cervical cancer, including invasive squamous cell
             carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, or adenosquamous carcinoma

               -  FIGO stage IB1 with clinically visible gross lesion OR

               -  FIGO stage IB2 or greater

          -  Scheduled for one of the following surgeries at a participating Gynecological
             Oncology Group center:

               -  Laparoscopic, transabdominal, or transvaginal hysterectomy

               -  Extrafascial total abdominal hysterectomy

               -  Trachelectomy

          -  Not scheduled for a loop electrosurgical excision procedure or a cone biopsy only

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  Not specified

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No cardiac pacemakers

        Pulmonary:

          -  No asthma

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant

          -  No contraindication to computed tomography (CT) (e.g., history of allergy to CT
             contrast medium)

          -  No contraindication to magnetic resonance imaging (e.g., intracranial vascular clip)

          -  No nonmalignant general medical or psychiatric condition that would preclude consent
             or surgery

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No prior radiotherapy for invasive cervical cancer

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No prior surgery for invasive cervical cancer

        Other:

          -  No prior medical treatment for invasive cervical cancer
      
