TITLE:
Radiation Therapy and Chemotherapy Plus Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation in Treating Patients With High-Grade Lymphoma or Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage cancer cells. Drugs used in
      chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or
      die. Peripheral stem cell transplantation may allow doctors to give higher doses of
      chemotherapy drugs and kill more cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of radiation therapy and chemotherapy
      plus peripheral stem cell transplantation in treating patients who have high-grade lymphoma
      or acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the toxicity of an intensive induction regimen comprised of
      etoposide with cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation (TBI) in patients with high grade
      lymphoma or acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). II. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of
      etoposide when combined with cyclophosphamide and TBI in these patients. III. Determine the
      response rate in patients treated with this induction regimen. IV. Determine the potential
      for long term survival in patients with relapsed lymphoblastic lymphoma and chemotherapy
      responsiveness treated with this induction regimen. V. Determine the efficacy of this
      induction regimen followed by autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (APBSCT)
      in patients with ALL in any complete remission. VI. Determine the efficacy of this induction
      regimen followed by APBSCT in patients will ALL after relapse and remission reinduction.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of etoposide. Patients undergo total body
      irradiation twice daily on days -8 to -5. Patients receive etoposide IV over 30 hours
      beginning on day -5 and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day -3 (beginning 6 hours after
      completion of etoposide infusion) and day -2. Peripheral blood stem cells are reinfused on
      day 0. Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously daily beginning on day 0 and
      continuing until blood counts have recovered for 2 days. Cohorts of 5 patients receive
      escalating doses of etoposide until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD
      is defined as the dose preceding that at which 3 of 5 patients experience dose limiting
      toxicity. Patients are followed every month for 1 year and then every 6 months for 2.5
      years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A minimum of 5 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 65 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically proven high grade lymphoma (including small
        noncleaved) by lymph node biopsy OR acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) by bone marrow
        aspiration and biopsy Lymphoblastic lymphoma: First remission allowed if elevated LDH or
        stage IV disease Early relapse allowed Must have CT of abdomen, pelvis, and chest obtained
        within 4-6 weeks prior to enrollment Measurable disease not required First remission
        transplantation is encouraged if poor prognostic indicators were present at diagnosis and
        the objective parameter of measure is long term disease free survival ALL: Patients with
        inaspirable bone marrow aspirate smears eligible if diagnosis confirmed by bone marrow
        core biopsy Any complete remission allowed All patients in relapse should have attempted
        reinduction of remission Patients in early relapse (defined as no greater than 20%
        lymphoblasts in bone marrow) eligible if bone marrow harvested while in remission (less
        than 5% blasts) Must be eligible for total body irradiation Negative CSF cytology within
        4-6 weeks of enrollment No active CNS lymphoma or leukemia A new classification scheme for
        adult non-Hodgkin's lymphoma has been adopted by PDQ. The terminology of "indolent" or
        "aggressive" lymphoma will replace the former terminology of "low", "intermediate", or
        "high" grade lymphoma. However, this protocol uses the former terminology.

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: Physiologic age 65 and under for autologous peripheral blood
        stem cell transplantation If age 55 and under, priority should be given to finding an
        allogeneic donor Performance status: ECOG 0 or 1 Life expectancy: Not specified
        Hematopoietic: See Disease Characteristics Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than 2.0 mg/dL
        SGOT or SGPT less than 2 times normal Renal: Creatinine less than 2.0 mg/dL
        Cardiovascular: Cardiac ejection fraction at least 40% by MUGA scan or clearance by a
        cardiologist No myocardial infarction within the past 6 months No active angina pectoris
        Pulmonary: FEV1 and DLCO at least 50% predicted Other: No active serious psychiatric or
        medical illness that would preclude administration of high dose chemotherapy HIV negative
        Not pregnant Negative pregnancy test

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: See Disease
        Characteristics Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: See Disease Characteristics
        No prior radiotherapy greater than 25 Gy to the craniospinal axis Surgery: See Disease
        Characteristics
      
