TITLE:
Chemotherapy Plus Bone Marrow Transplantation and Filgrastim in Treating Patients With Acute Myelogenous Leukemia or Myelodysplastic Syndrome

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing
      so they stop growing and die. Bone marrow transplantation may be able to replace cells that
      were destroyed by chemotherapy. Colony-stimulating factors such as filgrastim may increase
      the number of immune cells found in bone marrow or peripheral blood and may help a person's
      immune system recover from the side effects of chemotherapy.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of chemotherapy plus bone marrow
      transplantation and filgrastim in treating patients who have acute myelogenous leukemia or
      myelodysplastic syndrome.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the overall survival and disease free survival of patients with acute
           myelogenous leukemia or myelodysplastic syndrome treated with busulfan and etoposide
           followed by autologous bone marrow transplantation and filgrastim (G-CSF).

        -  Assess the toxicities of this regimen in this patient population.

        -  Assess the hematologic effects and toxicities of G-CSF given in this setting to these
           patients.

        -  Determine whether G-CSF stimulates leukemic relapse in these patients.

        -  Determine whether G-CSF has an affect on platelet recovery in this setting in these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to first, second, or third remission. Patients
      undergo bone marrow collection.

      Patients receive oral busulfan every 6 hours for 16 doses on days -5, -4, -3, and -2.
      Patients receive etoposide IV over 4 hours on days -4, -3, and -2. Bone marrow is reinfused
      36-48 hours after the last dose of etoposide. Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) IV daily
      beginning 2-4 hours after bone marrow reinfusion until hematopoietic recovery.

      Patients are followed monthly for 1 year, every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20-30 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 65 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Morphologically proven (from bone marrow aspirate smears or touch preps of marrow
             biopsy) of myelodysplastic syndrome or acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) of 1 of the
             following subtypes:

               -  Acute myeloblastic leukemia (FAB M1 or M2)

               -  Acute promyelocytic leukemia (FAB M3)

               -  Acute myelomonocytic leukemia (FAB M4)

               -  Acute monocytic leukemia (FAB M5)

               -  Acute erythroleukemia (FAB M6)

          -  In complete remission at time of marrow or stem cell harvesting

          -  No relapsed AML unless bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cells previously
             harvested in remission are available for transplantation

          -  May have had secondary AML that is either therapy related or that has evolved from an
             antecedent myelodysplastic syndrome

          -  History of CNS disease during induction allowed provided inactive and cytologic
             examination of spinal fluid from preharvest lumbar puncture shows no evidence of
             leukemia

          -  No occult or symptomatic leukemic meningitis during induction therapy or prior to
             bone marrow harvesting

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  Physiologic 65 and under

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0-1

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 2.0 mg/dL

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2.0 mg/dL

          -  Creatinine clearance at least 50 mL/min

        Cardiovascular:

          -  Cardiac ejection fraction normal

        Pulmonary:

          -  FEV1 at least 60% predicted

          -  DLCO at least 60% predicted

        Other:

          -  HIV negative

          -  No evidence of persistent infections

          -  No concurrent organ damage or medical problems that would preclude study therapy

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Chemotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No concurrent antibiotics
      
