TITLE:
Bryostatin 1 Plus Gemcitabine in Treating Patients With Advanced Cancer

CONDITION:
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific

INTERVENTION:
bryostatin 1

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of bryostatin 1 plus gemcitabine in
      treating patients who have advanced cancer that has not responded to previous treatment.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of gemcitabine when given concurrently with
           bryostatin 1 to patients with advanced refractory cancer.

        -  Access the pattern of toxicity of this drug regimen in this patient population.

        -  Determine the objective response rate, duration of response, and overall survival in
           patients treated with this drug regimen.

        -  Determine the influence of bryostatin 1 on the pharmacokinetics of gemcitabine.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study.

      Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes, immediately followed by bryostatin 1 IV
      over 24 hours, weekly for 3 weeks (days 1, 8, and 15). Treatment repeats every 28 days in
      the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of gemcitabine and bryostatin 1 until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at
      which 2 of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxic effects.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 2-3 patients per month will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically or cytologically proven advanced cancer (except hematological cancers)
             for which there is no standard therapy or have failed standard therapies

          -  Measurable or evaluable disease

          -  Clinically controlled brain metastases allowed

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  SWOG 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 3 months

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Hemoglobin at least 8.0 g/dL

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN) (elevated bilirubin
             due to Gilbert's syndrome allowed if direct bilirubin normal)

          -  AST less than 2.5 times ULN

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine normal

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No active cardiac disease

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No concurrent bacterial infection requiring antibiotics

          -  No serious concurrent medical condition

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  No concurrent immunotherapy

        Chemotherapy:

          -  At least 3 weeks since systemic cytotoxic chemotherapy (including gemcitabine) and
             recovered

          -  No other concurrent chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Prior hormonal therapy allowed

          -  No concurrent hormonal therapy (excluding contraceptives, appetite stimulants, or
             replacement steroids)

        Radiotherapy:

          -  At least 3 weeks since radiotherapy to large areas of active bone marrow and
             recovered

          -  No concurrent radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  Recovered from prior major surgery

        Other:

          -  No concurrent antiviral nucleosides

          -  At least 1 month since prior investigational agents

          -  No other concurrent experimental medications
      
