TITLE:
Safety and Effectiveness of Lamivudine When Given Once a Day Versus Twice a Day in Combination With Other Anti-HIV Drugs in HIV-Infected Adults Who Have Never Received Anti-HIV Drugs

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Efavirenz

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to look at the safety and effectiveness of receiving lamivudine
      (3TC) once a day versus twice a day as part of an anti-HIV drug combination.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients are randomized to receive the same total dosage of 3TC either twice a day (Group 1)
      or once a day (Group 2) in combination with ZDV and EFV over 48 weeks. Viral load
      measurements will be performed at Weeks 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, and every 8 weeks thereafter.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients may be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are 18 years of age or older.

          -  Are HIV-positive.

          -  Have a viral load (level of HIV in the blood) of at least 400 copies/ml within 21
             days of study entry.

          -  Have a CD4 count greater than 100 cells/mm3 within 21 days of study entry.

          -  Agree to practice abstinence or use effective barrier methods of birth control (or,
             if patient is a woman, unable to have children).

        Exclusion Criteria

        Patients will not be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Have taken any antiretroviral (anti-HIV) agent.

          -  Are pregnant or breast-feeding.

          -  Are unable to absorb food or have trouble taking medicines by mouth.

          -  Abuse alcohol or drugs to an extent that may make study participation difficult.

          -  Are not likely to be able to complete the 48 weeks of study treatment.

          -  Have a history of pancreatitis (inflamed pancreas) or hepatitis within the last 6
             months or any evidence of liver disease.

          -  Have received an investigational vaccine within the past 3 months or have received
             gene therapy.

          -  Have a severe medical condition such as diabetes or heart trouble.

          -  Have been diagnosed with AIDS.

          -  Have had radiation therapy or chemotherapy within 30 days of study entry, except for
             treatment of Kaposi's sarcoma.

          -  Are taking medications that affect the immune system within 30 days of study entry.

          -  Are taking medications that may interact with the study drugs.
      
