TITLE:
Biological Therapy in Treating Patients With Metastatic Cancer

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
CEA RNA-pulsed DC cancer vaccine

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Biological therapies use different ways to stimulate the immune system and stop
      cancer cells from growing.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of biological therapy in treating patients
      who have metastatic cancer that has not responded to previous treatment.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the safety and dose limiting toxicity of an intravenous vaccine of
      autologous, cultured, dendritic cells pulsed with carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) RNA in
      patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma expressing CEA. II. Assess the cellular immune
      response to the CEA protein. III. Assess the clinical and biochemical response to the
      treatment and the duration of such response.

      OUTLINE: This a three tiered, open label, uncontrolled, dose escalation study. The first 3
      patients receive a low dose of intravenous carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) RNA-pulsed
      autologous dendritic cells (DC) at weeks 0, 1, 2, and 3. Patients are evaluated for dose
      limiting toxicity (DLT), immune response, and the antitumor response for at least 1 week
      before dose escalation may proceed. If there is no DLT in the first three, the next 3
      patients are treated at a medium dose of CEA RNA-pulsed autologous DC at 0, 1, 2, and 3
      weeks. Finally, if DLT is not seen at the medium dose, the final 6 patients receive
      intravenous infusions of a high dose of CEA RNA-pulsed autologous DC at weeks 0, 1, 2, and
      3. If 1-2 patient(s) experience DLT at the either the low or medium dose levels, 3 more
      patients are entered at the same dose. If no further DLT occurs, then dose escalation
      continues. As soon as 3 toxic events occur in 3-6 patients at one dose level, accrual at
      that level ceases. The MTD is defined as the dose level immediately below that at which more
      than 3 of 6 patients develop DLT.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A minimum of 3 and a maximum of 18 patients will be accrued for this
      study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed metastatic adenocarcinoma expressing
        carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) that has failed conventional therapy Measurable or
        evaluable disease May include elevated CEA level No previously irradiated or known new CNS
        metastases

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: Karnofsky 70-100% Life
        expectancy: Greater than 6 months Hematopoietic: WBC at least 3,000/mm3 Absolute
        lymphocyte count at least 1,000/mm3 Hemoglobin at least 9 g/dL Platelet count at least
        100,000/mm3 PT less than 1.25 times normal limit PTT less that 1.66 times normal limit
        Fibrinogen greater than 0.75 times normal limit Hepatic: Bilirubin less than 2.0 mg/dL
        Renal: Creatinine less than 2.5 mg/dL Cardiovascular: No NYHA class III or IV Pulmonary:
        FEV1 greater than 70% of predicted FVC greater than 70% of predicted DLCO greater than 70%
        of predicted No asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Other: No active or
        chronic infection (including urinary tract infection) No viral hepatitis HIV negative No
        concurrent second malignancy other than nonmelanoma skin cancer or controlled superficial
        bladder cancer No hepatic disease No history of other autoimmune disease such as
        inflammatory bowel disease, systemic lupus erythematous, ankylosing spondylitis,
        scleroderma, or multiple sclerosis

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Must have recovered from all acute toxic effects Biologic
        therapy: No concurrent biologic therapy At least 6 weeks since biologic therapy No
        concurrent immunotherapy No more than 1 prior biologic regimen Chemotherapy: No concurrent
        chemotherapy At least 6 weeks since chemotherapy No more than 1 prior chemotherapy regimen
        Endocrine therapy: At least 6 weeks since steroid therapy Radiotherapy: No concurrent
        radiotherapy At least 12 weeks since therapy including Sr 89 At least 6 weeks since other
        radiotherapy No prior cranial radiotherapy Surgery: Not specified Other: No concurrent
        immunosuppressives such as azathioprine or cyclosporine
      
