TITLE:
Gene Therapy in Treating Patients With Cancer

CONDITION:
Cancer

INTERVENTION:
therapeutic autologous lymphocytes

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Inserting a gene that has been created in the laboratory into a person's white
      blood cells may make the body build an immune response to kill cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of gene therapy in treating patients who
      have cancer that has not responded to previous therapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose of T cells activated in vitro and
           modified with chimeric anti-CEA immunoglobulin T cell receptors (Ig TCR) in patients
           with CEA expressing adenocarcinoma.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of this regimen by the persistence of modified T cells
           in the blood of these patients.

        -  Evaluate the immunogenicity of murine sequences in chimeric anti-CEA Ig TCR.

        -  Assess immunologic parameters which correlate with the efficacy of this regimen in
           these patients.

        -  Evaluate, in a preliminary manner, the efficacy of this regimen in patients with CEA
           bearing tumors.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study.

      Peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) are harvested. PBL are activated in vitro and then
      modified with recombinant chimeric anti-CEA immunoglobulin T cell receptors (Ig TCR). Ig TCR
      modified T cells are reinfused over 30-60 minutes.

      The estimated maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is defined as the dose at which 2 of 6 patients
      experience unacceptable toxicity. If the MTD is not reached within the first cohort, a
      second cohort of 3 patients then receives 4 doses of modified T cells at a higher dose.

      Patients are followed every 2 weeks for 2 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 6-9 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically proven CEA expressing adenocarcinoma

               -  Serum CEA levels greater than 10 ng/mL

               -  Failed standard therapy

          -  Measurable disease

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  Greater than 2 months

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  No significant hepatic disease

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 3 mg/dL

          -  No active clinical disease caused by hepatitis B

        Renal:

          -  No significant renal disease

          -  Creatinine no greater than 3 mg/dL

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No significant cardiovascular disease

        Pulmonary:

          -  No significant pulmonary disease

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No significant endocrine, rheumatologic, or allergic disease

          -  No active clinical disease caused by cytomegalovirus or tuberculosis

          -  HIV negative

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified
      
