TITLE:
Phase III Randomized Study of Sodium Dichloroacetate in Children With Congenital Lactic Acidosis

CONDITION:
Lactic Acidosis

INTERVENTION:
sodium dichloroacetate

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the safety of sodium dichloroacetate (DCA) vs placebo in children with congenital
      lactic acidosis.

      II. Determine the quality of life of these patients.

      III. Determine the pharmacokinetics and metabolic fate of DCA over the course of drug
      administration in these patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double blind, crossover study. Patients are
      stratified according to age (3 months to 2 years vs over 2 to 18 years).

      All patients receive at least 12 months of sodium dichloroacetate (DCA) during a 2 year
      period of double blind, crossover evaluation of DCA and placebo by mouth.

      Quality of life is assessed before treatment and periodically during treatment.

      Completion date provided represents the completion date of the grant per OOPD records
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 3 Months to 18 Years
Criteria:

        PROTOCOL ENTRY CRITERIA:

        --Disease Characteristics--

        Diagnosis of congenital lactic acidosis (CLA) meeting the following criteria: Three basal
        venous lactates at least 2.5 mM, arterial lactates at least 2.0 mM, or CSF lactates at
        least 2.5 mM OR any combination of these, obtained over at least 1 month and within 6
        months OR Increase in blood lactate at least 1.0 mM over basal following a carbohydrate
        meal challenge

        AND

        Enzymatic or molecular genetic proof of a defect of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, one or
        more respiratory chain enzymes, or a Krebs cycle enzyme OR Over production of C14-lactate
        from C14-glucose by cultured skin fibroblasts

        AND

        Ability to withstand an 8 hour (if 2 years and under) or 12 hour (if over 2 years) fast
        without developing hypoglycemia (blood glucose less than 50 mg/dL)

        No secondary lactic acidosis due to impaired oxygenation or circulation

        No hyperlactatemia associated with proven biotinidase deficiency (biotin responsive CLA)
        or with enzyme deficiencies of gluconeogenesis

        No primary, defined organic acidurias other than lactic acidosis, for which effective
        therapy is available (e.g., propionic aciduria)

        No primary disorders of amino acid metabolism or fatty acid oxidation

        No malabsorption syndromes associated with D-lactic acidosis

        --Prior/Concurrent Therapy--

        No chronic dialysis

        --Patient Characteristics--

        Hepatic: No primary hepatic disease unrelated to CLA

        Renal: Creatinine less than 1.2 mg/dL OR Creatinine clearance at least 60 mL/min

        Other: No concurrent infection or fever
      
