TITLE:
Phase III Study of Chondrocyte Alginate Gel Suspension in Pediatric Patients With Vesicoureteral Reflux

CONDITION:
Vesicoureteral Reflux

INTERVENTION:
chondrocyte-alginate gel suspension

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the safety and efficacy of chondrocyte alginate gel suspension in
      pediatric patients with vesicoureteral reflux.

      II. Determine the long term efficacy of this treatment regimen in this patient population.

      III. Evaluate the short and long term avoidance of surgery or antibiotic therapy after this
      treatment regimen in this patient population.

      IV. Estimate the risk:benefit ratio of this treatment regimen in these patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients undergo biopsy of the auricular
      cartilage for chondrocytes during cystoscopic evaluation on day 1. Chondrocyte alginate gel
      suspension is injected into the submucosa of the bladder at the vesicoureteral junction
      between days 40-50. Patients found to have post treatment reflux may be retreated once.

      Patients are followed at 1, 3, and 12 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 6 Months to 18 Years
Criteria:

        PROTOCOL ENTRY CRITERIA:

        --Disease Characteristics--

          -  Confirmed grade 3 or 4 reflux in at least one ureter by voiding cystourethrogram
             Breakthrough urinary tract infection despite standard antibiotic therapy OR
             Persistent reflux unlikely to resolve spontaneously

          -  Grade 3: 2 year reflux duration OR 1 breakthrough infection Grade 4: 1 year reflux
             duration OR 1 breakthrough infection

          -  Coexisting grade 1 or 2 reflux OR Resolved reflux (i.e., contralateral to the
             existing grade 3 or 4 refluxing ureter) allowed

          -  No reflux secondary to obstruction or neuropathic disease

          -  No gross urological abnormalities (e.g., megaureter requiring ureteral tapering or
             duplicity of ureters)

        --Prior/Concurrent Therapy--

          -  Surgery: No prior surgery for correction of reflux No recent prior urological device
             implantation

        --Patient Characteristics--

          -  Hematopoietic: No history of bleeding disorders

          -  Cardiovascular: No history of hypertension or cardiac disease

          -  Pulmonary: No history of pulmonary disease

          -  Other: No known allergies to contrast dyes, iodine, or shellfish No contraindications
             to general anesthesia No prior infections (other than UTIs) No immunodeficiencies No
             metabolic disease No social situation that would interfere with follow up Not
             pregnant Negative pregnancy test
      
