TITLE:
Phase II Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Study of the Reinforcing Effects of Alprazolam in Patients With Anxiety

CONDITION:
Anxiety Disorder

INTERVENTION:
alprazolam

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine whether the benzodiazepine alprazolam reinforces self-medication
      behavior in anxious patients with varying histories of using other drugs.

      II. Establish outpatient methods for the study of self-medication and drug reinforcement in
      patients vulnerable to prescription drug abuse or dependence.

      III. Evaluate the influence of alcohol and other non-prescription drug use as determinants
      of vulnerability in these patients.

      IV. Identify personality, attitudinal, or other variables that might predict different
      patterns of self-medication.

      V. Assess the effects of cognitive-behavioral therapy on alprazolam self-medication.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This protocol involves different experiments examining self-medication
      with anxiolytic medications in selected patients, and cognitive-behavioral therapy for
      anxiety. Capsules are color coded and taken under double-blind conditions. Compliance is
      monitored with the Medication Event Monitoring System, which automatically registers the
      date and time each bottle is opened.

      The physician directs therapy administration, using some combination of the following: blind
      choice test, antianxiety agent(s), placebo, and cognitive-behavioral therapy.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Criteria:

        PROTOCOL ENTRY CRITERIA:

        --Disease Characteristics--

          -  Primary diagnosis of generalized anxiety or panic disorder Determined by Structured
             Clinical Interview for DSM IV

          -  Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAM-A) score at least 14 AND Profile of Mood States (POMS)
             tension/anxiety scale score at least 20

          -  Concurrent diagnoses allowed: Mild to moderate agoraphobia Simple or social phobias
             Secondary unipolar affective disorders

          -  No current substance abuse, dependence, or substance abuse treatment Drug-free urine
             sample required

          -  No history of other primary Axis I diagnosis other than tobacco dependence

        --Prior/Concurrent Therapy--

          -  No prior formalized non-drug therapy for anxiety disorder

          -  No concurrent prescription psychoactive medication

          -  No history of benzodiazepine dependence

        --Patient Characteristics--

          -  Age: 18 to 50

          -  Other: Medically healthy Negative pregnancy test required No occupational requirement
             to work in hazardous situations
      
