TITLE:
Allopurinol, Glucantime, or Allopurinol/Glucantime for Cutaneous Leishmaniasis in Brazil

CONDITION:
Leishmaniasis

INTERVENTION:
allopurinol

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVE:

      Compare the efficacy and side effects of allopurinol versus glucantime versus
      allopurinol/glucantime in patients in Brazil with cutaneous leishmaniasis.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE:

      This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified by participating institution.

      One group is treated with daily intramuscular injections of glucantime. Patients with less
      than a complete response on Day 21 continue treatment until lesions heal completely or for a
      maximum of 60 days. Patients with progressive disease on Day 40 are removed from study.

      The second group is treated with daily oral allopurinol. Patients with a partial response on
      Day 21 continue treatment until lesions heal completely. Patients with stable or progressive
      disease on Day 21 or unhealed lesions on Day 56 cross to glucantime therapy. Accrual into
      this group was closed in 6/96.

      The third group receives allopurinol and glucantime.

      Patients are followed at 3, 6, and 9 months, then annually for at least 5 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 12 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        PROTOCOL ENTRY CRITERIA:

        --Disease Characteristics--

        Parasitologically confirmed cutaneous leishmaniasis (lesion of less than 3 months
        duration)

        No mucocutaneous leishmaniasis

        No prior leishmaniasis

        --Prior/Concurrent Therapy--

        No prior treatment for leishmaniasis

        --Patient Characteristics--

        Hepatic: No clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease

        Renal: No clinical or laboratory evidence of renal disease No hyperuricemia or gout

        Cardiovascular: No clinical, electrocardiographic, or laboratory evidence of cardiac
        disease

        Other: No allergy or other contraindication to allopurinol or glucantime; No concurrent
        medication that might interact with study drugs, e.g.: probenecid, warfarin, azathioprine;
        No skin rash; No malnutrition; No other medical contraindication to protocol therapy; No
        pregnant or nursing women
      
