TITLE:
The Diabetes Prevention Trial of Type 1 Diabetes (DPT-1)

CONDITION:
Diabetes Mellitus, Type 1

INTERVENTION:
Crystallized human recombinant insulin

SUMMARY:

      The Diabetes Prevention Trial of Type 1 (DPT-1) is a multicenter randomized, controlled
      clinical trial designed to determine whether it is possible to delay or prevent the clinical
      onset of type 1 diabetes through daily doses of insulin in individuals determined to be at
      risk for the disease. The parenteral insulin trial in DPT-1 has been completed, however, the
      oral insulin trial is still recruiting. Over 350 sites in the United States, Canada, and
      Puerto Rico are taking part in the study. Screening of patients is ongoing; approximately
      100,000 nondiabetic relatives of persons with type 1 diabetes have been screened to detect
      the presence of islet cell antibodies. Those individuals found to have islet cell antibodies
      are being staged to determine their risk of diabetes based on genetic, immunologic, and
      metabolic characteristics. Those individuals found to be at intermediate risk of diabetes
      are randomized to receive insulin orally or to receive placebo. Patients are being followed
      for up to six years.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 3 Years to 45 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Individuals 3-45 years old who have an immediate family member with type 1 diabetes
             (such as a child, parent, or sibling)

          -  Individuals 3-20 years old who have an extended family member with type 1 diabetes
             (such as a cousin, niece, nephew, aunt, uncle, grandparent, or half-sibling)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  To be eligible, a person must:

          -  Not have diabetes already.

          -  Have no previous history of being treated with insulin or oral diabetes medications.

          -  Have not received any prior therapy for prevention of type 1 diabetes such as
             insulin, nicotinamide, or immunosuppressive drugs (i.e. have not been involved in any
             previous clinical studies of these agents.)

          -  Have no known serious diseases.

          -  If you are a woman, you must not be planning to become pregnant during the course of
             the study. You will not be excluded from participation, but are not encouraged to
             volunteer in the first place if you plan to have a baby during the trial period).
      
