TITLE:
Phase II Pilot Controlled Study of Short Vs Longer Term Pimozide (Orap) Therapy in Tourette Syndrome

CONDITION:
Tourette Syndrome

INTERVENTION:
pimozide

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine whether the time period between randomization and endpoint is
      longer in the short term pimozide therapy or longer term therapy in patients with Tourette
      syndrome.

      II. Determine whether tic severity, medication side effects, academic performance and
      psychosocial functioning are better in the short term pimozide therapy or longer term
      pimozide therapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This is a combined open label and double blind randomized study.

      Patients receive pimozide (open label) orally until a stable level of tic control is
      achieved and remains unchanged for at least 1 month.

      Then, patients are randomized to one of two possible double blind treatments. In the short
      term pimozide group, patients receive pimozide over 2 weeks. Then, pimozide is gradually
      replaced by an inactive placebo within the following 10 weeks.

      Patients in the long term pimozide group receive pimozide. Patients continue treatment for
      12 months or until a worsening of tics or behavioral symptoms are present for which an
      increased dosage is required.

      Patients who do not experience an exacerbation of tics requiring an increase in dosage are
      followed for 1 year from the date of entry.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 5 Years to 11 Years
Criteria:

        PROTOCOL ENTRY CRITERIA:

        --Disease Characteristics-- DSM-III-R criteria for Tourette syndrome Chronic motor tic
        disorder with tics sufficiently severe to require neuroleptic therapy --Prior/Concurrent
        Therapy-- No clonidine for at least 2 weeks or any neuroleptic (e.g., haloperidol,
        pimozide) within 3 months prior to study Stable dosage of other medications (e.g.,
        antiobsessional, stimulant) for at least 3 months prior to and during study required
      
