TITLE:
Radiation Therapy Using Holmium Ho 166 DOTMP Plus Melphalan and Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation in Treating Patients With Multiple Myeloma

CONDITION:
Multiple Myeloma and Plasma Cell Neoplasm

INTERVENTION:
melphalan

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Radiation therapy using holmium Ho 166 DOTMP may damage cancer cells. Drugs used
      in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing
      or die. Peripheral stem cell transplantation may be able to replace immune cells that were
      destroyed by chemotherapy or radiation therapy used to kill cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of radiation therapy using holmium Ho
      166 DOTMP plus melphalan and peripheral stem cell transplantation in treating patients who
      have multiple myeloma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of targeted radiotherapy using holmium
      Ho 166 DOTMP when combined with melphalan and autologous or syngeneic peripheral blood stem
      cell transplantation in patients with multiple myeloma. II. Determine the response rate and
      time to progression in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation, multicenter study of targeted radiotherapy using holmium
      Ho 166 DOTMP. Phase I: Autologous or syngeneic peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are
      harvested and selected for CD34+ cells. Patients receive an initial test dose of holmium Ho
      166 DOTMP IV. Patients with adequate skeletal uptake of the test dose then receive
      therapeutic dose holmium Ho 166 DOTMP IV over 5-10 minutes for 1-3 days beginning 2 days
      after test dose infusion and melphalan IV over 20-30 minutes on day -3. PBSC are reinfused
      beginning a minimum of 24 hours after melphalan infusion and after ongoing radiation to bone
      marrow falls to less than 1 rad/hour. Cohorts of 4-7 patients receive escalating doses of
      targeted radiotherapy using holmium Ho 166 DOTMP until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is
      determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 7 patients
      experience dose limiting toxicity. Phase II: Patients receive holmium Ho 166 DOTMP at the
      MTD from phase I of the study. Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study within 1 year.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Multiple myeloma with one of the following: Complete or partial
        response to initial chemotherapy OR Primary refractory disease OR Chemotherapy responsive
        relapse Undergoing autologous or syngeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation No
        myeloma in refractory relapse

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 to physiologic 65 Performance status: Zubrod 0-2 Life
        expectancy: Not severely limited by concurrent illness Hematopoietic: Not specified
        Hepatic: Bilirubin less than 2 mg/dL SGPT less than 4 times normal Renal: Creatinine
        clearance at least 30 mL/min Cardiovascular: No uncontrolled arrhythmias or symptomatic
        cardiac disease Pulmonary: No symptomatic pulmonary disease FEV1, FVC, and DLCO at least
        50% of predicted Other: Not pregnant or nursing Fertile patients must use effective
        contraception HIV negative No spinal cord compression

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: See Disease
        Characteristics Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: Prior external beam
        radiotherapy not to exceed 30 Gy to spinal cord or greater than 20% of bone marrow volume
        Surgery: Not specified Other: At least 1 month since prior bisphosphonates No other
        concurrent experimental agents
      
