TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Previously Untreated, Newly Diagnosed Epithelial Tumors

CONDITION:
Endometrial Cancer

INTERVENTION:
carboplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combining docetaxel, carboplatin, and
      gemcitabine in treating patients who have previously untreated, newly diagnosed epithelial
      cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of docetaxel, carboplatin, and
      gemcitabine in patients with previously untreated, newly diagnosed, high-risk epithelial
      cancer of mullerian origin.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of docetaxel and gemcitabine. Patients receive
      docetaxel IV over 30 minutes and gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Carboplatin
      IV is administered over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21-28 days for up to 6
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 3-5
      patients receive escalating doses of docetaxel and gemcitabine until the maximum tolerated
      dose is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 5
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20-30 patients will be accrued for this study within 1.5-2
      years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed, newly diagnosed, high-risk epithelial
        tumors of mullerian origin, including: Ovarian epithelial cancer Peritoneal papillary
        serous cancer Primary fallopian tube cancer Endometrial cancer High-risk is defined as:
        Any amount of gross residual disease remaining at the time of initial debulking surgery
        AND/OR Any radiographic or physical exam evidence of disease after surgery AND/OR Disease
        outside of the abdomen (e.g., malignant pleural effusion) AND/OR Parenchymal liver,
        spleen, or lung metastases

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: ECOG 0-2 Life expectancy:
        More than 2 months Hematopoietic: WBC at least 3,000/mm3 Absolute neutrophil count at
        least 1,500/mm3 Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than
        upper limit of normal (ULN) Alkaline phosphatase no greater than 2.5 times ULN SGOT and
        SGPT no greater than 1.5 times ULN Renal: Creatinine no greater than 1.5 mg/dL Creatinine
        clearance at least 35 mL/min Cardiovascular: Acceptable cardiac exam No active cardiac
        ischemia Pulmonary: Acceptable pulmonary exam No active pulmonary infection or compromise
        Other: Not pregnant or nursing No peripheral neuropathy grade 2 or greater No other
        debilitating medical or psychiatric conditions that would preclude study No other
        malignancy within the past 3 years except limited stage basal or squamous cell skin cancer
        or carcinoma in situ of the cervix No evidence of infection Adequate bowel function, oral
        intake, and wound healing ability

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: No prior cytokine therapy for epithelial
        tumors of mullerian origin Chemotherapy: No more than 1 prior chemotherapy regimen for
        epithelial tumors of mullerian origin At least 3 years since other prior chemotherapy
        Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: No prior pelvic radiotherapy Surgery: See
        Disease Characteristics At least 7 days since prior surgery
      
