TITLE:
Phase II Randomized Controlled Study of Sequential Orbital Radiotherapy for Graves' Ophthalmopathy

CONDITION:
Graves' Disease

INTERVENTION:
Radiotherapy

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate the effects of 20 Gy of external-beam radiotherapy to 1 orbit vs.
      the untreated orbit at 3 and 6 months after therapy in patients with Graves' ophthalmopathy.

      II. Evaluate whether 20 Gy of external-beam radiotherapy delivered to the second orbit 6
      months later in the course of the disease produces effects of equal magnitude to those
      observed when the first orbit was treated.

      III. Relate the magnitude of treatment effects to the time since onset of eye symptoms.

      IV. Evaluate whether characteristics of radiation retinopathy are present 3 years after
      orbital radiotherapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: The posterior region of 1 orbit is irradiated over 2 weeks with
      supervoltage equipment. The other orbit is treated 6 months later. The sequence of therapy
      is randomly assigned.

      The untreated eye receives a simultaneous sham treatment during each radiotherapy session.

      Patients are followed at 3, 6, 9, 12, and 36 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 30 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        PROTOCOL ENTRY CRITERIA:

        --Disease Characteristics-- Firm diagnosis of Graves' disease with normal thyroid
        function, i.e.: Thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulin positive Thyroxine 5-12.5 micrograms/dL
        Tri-iodothyronine 80-180 nanograms/dL Thyroid-stimulating hormone 0.2-8 mIU/L Euthyroid
        due to therapy acceptable Ophthalmopathy meeting at least 3 of the following criteria:
        Chemosis or lid edema Lid lag, lid retraction, or restrictive lagophthalmos Proptosis at
        least 20 mm by Krahn exophthalmometry in at least 1 eye Less than 4 mm discrepancy between
        eyes Patient perception of "stare" or "bulge" Extraocular muscle motion restriction in 1
        or both eyes on clinical exam or by patient report of diplopia at extremes of gaze
        Extraocular muscle enlargement on computerized tomography (previous study results
        acceptable) Mild to moderate ophthalmopathy, i.e.: Orbital pain Lacrimation Photophobia
        Visual blurring or diplopia No optic neuropathy, i.e.: Afferent pupillary defect Impaired
        color vision on D-15 testing (unless congenital color perception deficiency) Visual field
        defect Impaired visual acuity No corneal ulcers --Prior/Concurrent Therapy-- No prior
        external-beam radiotherapy to the head and neck At least 2 weeks since corticosteroids
        --Patient Characteristics-- No prior head and neck tumors No diabetes No pregnant women
      
