TITLE:
Positron Emission Tomography in Determining Stage of Esophageal Cancer

CONDITION:
Esophageal Cancer

INTERVENTION:
conventional surgery

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Imaging procedures such as positron emission tomography may improve the ability
      to determine the stage of esophageal cancer.

      PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying how well fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission
      tomography determines tumor stage in patients with esophageal cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary Objective:

      To evaluate whether FDG-PET imaging can detect lesions that would preclude surgery
      (esophagectomy) in patients found to be surgical candidates by standard imaging procedures.

      Secondary Objective:

      To use the collected data to generate hypotheses to be used in future studies, such as which
      types of previously undetected lesions FDG-PET imaging is best able to identify.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Patient must be  18 years of age.

          2. Patient must have histologically confirmed squamous cell carcinoma or adenocarcinoma
             of the thoracic esophagus (greater than or equal to 20 cm from incisors) or
             gastroesophageal junction. (Pathology report must be submitted).

          3. Patient must be deemed medically fit for surgical staging procedures and
             esophagectomy following the thoracic surgeon's evaluation of general medical fitness.

          4. Patient's clinical staging data (clinical examination, laboratory tests, and standard
             radiological staging assessments) must be obtained within 60 days prior to
             registration and must suggest that the tumor is potentially resectable, including
             tumors staged T1-3, N0-1, M0.

          5. Patient must be able to tolerate FDG-PET scan (e.g., not claustrophobic and able to
             lie supine for 1.5 hrs).

          6. Female patient of childbearing potential must have a negative serum or urine
             pregnancy test within 72 hours prior to FDG-PET.

               -  NOTE: Pregnancy test is required to avoid unnecessary fetal radiation exposure
                  and because the use of furosemide is contraindicated in pregnancy.

          7. Patient or the patient's legally acceptable representative must provide a signed and
             dated written informed consent prior to registration and any study related
             procedures.

          8. Patient must provide written authorization to allow the use and disclosure of their
             protected health information.

               -  NOTE: This may be obtained in either the study-specific informed consent or in a
                  separate authorization form and must be obtained from the patient prior to study
                  pre-registration.

          9. A cancer survivor is eligible provided that ALL of the following criteria are met and
             documented:

               -  the patient has undergone potentially curative therapy for all prior
                  malignancies and

               -  there has been no evidence of any prior malignancies for at least five years
                  (except for completely resected cervical or non-melanoma skin cancer) and

               -  the patient is deemed by their treating physician to be at low risk for
                  recurrence from prior malignancies.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Patient has proximal esophageal cancer (less than 20 cm from incisors) potentially
             requiring pharyngolaryngoesophagectomy.

          2. Patient has unresectable lesions (stage M1b, with biopsy confirmation of distant
             metastatic disease; or those with unresectable locoregional invasion, T4 Nx Mx).

          3. Patient has evidence of metastatic disease.

               -  NOTE: Obvious metastasis that is based on clinical evaluation includes any or
                  all of the following: positive cytology of pleura, pericardium, or peritoneum;
                  metastasis to brain, bone, lung, liver, or adrenals; positive biopsy or cytology
                  of metastasis to supraclavicular lymph nodes; and involvement of the
                  tracheobronchial tree (positive bronchoscopic biopsy or overt
                  esophago-respiratory fistula).

          4. Patient has had a prior FDG-PET scan for evaluation of their esophageal cancer.

          5. Patient has uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, as evidenced by a fasting blood glucose
             value >200 mg/dL, within 12 hours of FDG-PET scan.

          6. Patient has received neoadjuvant chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy PRIOR to FDG-PET
             scan being performed.
      
