TITLE:
Phase III Randomized Study of Poloxamer 188 for Vaso-Occlusive Crisis of Sickle Cell Disease

CONDITION:
Sickle Cell Anemia

INTERVENTION:
poloxamer 188

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Assess the efficacy of poloxamer 188 in reducing the duration of painful
      vaso-occlusive crisis in patients with sickle cell disease.

      II. Assess the effect of poloxamer 188 on duration and intensity of pain, total analgesic
      use, and length of hospitalization of these patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, multicenter study.
      Patients are stratified according to hydroxyurea use.

      Patients are randomized to treatment poloxamer 188 or placebo. Treatment begins within 12
      hours of presentation with crisis. Patients receive poloxamer 188 or placebo by continuous
      infusion for 48 hours. Pain is assessed before, during, and after treatment.

      Patients are followed on days 7-14 and 28-35.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 10 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        PROTOCOL ENTRY CRITERIA:

        --Disease Characteristics--

          -  Sickle cell disease confirmed by electrophoresis or high pressure liquid
             chromatography

          -  At least one prior documented painful crisis episode but no greater than 10 crises
             per year for the last two years

          -  Sudden onset of acute pain lasting 4-12 hours and involving at least one site

          -  Severe crisis pain that requires parenteral analgesics and hospitalization, but not
             within the preceding 2 weeks

        --Prior/Concurrent Therapy--

          -  Surgery: At least 2 weeks since prior major surgery No concurrent surgery

          -  Other: At least 2 weeks since prior puncture of noncompressible vessels No prior
             therapy using poloxamer 188 No concurrent investigational drug No concurrent use of
             nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs

        --Patient Characteristics--

          -  Hematopoietic: No significant bleeding or bleeding disorder

          -  Hepatic: ALT no greater than 2 times normal

          -  Renal: No active renal disease Creatinine no greater than 1.0 mg/dL OR Creatinine
             clearance greater than 50 mL/min Protein less than 300 mg/dL

          -  Cardiovascular: No evidence of acute myocardial ischemia or infarction

          -  Neurologic: At least 6 months since prior cerebrovascular accident or seizure

          -  Other: Not pregnant Fertile patients must use effective contraception during and for
             at least 30 days after treatment No history of chronic bacterial osteomyelitis No
             history of drug or alcohol abuse At least 6 months since prior use of illicit drug
             Have adequate IV access No crisis with life-threatening complications such as:
             Hepatic or splenic sequestration Acute chest syndrome Aplastic crisis No known
             infection or infection with encapsulated organism No evidence of septic shock Not
             concurrently hospitalized for other conditions Not concurrently on hypertransfusion
             program
      
