TITLE:
Study of the Neurobiology of Tourette Syndrome and Related Disorders

CONDITION:
Tourette Syndrome

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Investigate the pathobiology of Tourette syndrome and related disorders by
      measuring various compounds of interest in cerebrospinal fluid, plasma, and urine of
      patients with Tourette syndrome, obsessive compulsive disorder, and/or chronic tics.

      II. Determine the pattern of familial aggregation of Tourette syndrome and obsessive
      compulsive disorder by systematic assessment of all first-degree family members of patients
      selected for cerebrospinal fluid studies.

      III. Establish the neurochemical and neuropeptide profile associated with the range of
      expression of the putative Tourette gene expression in adult and adolescent patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: All patients are screened with a complete physical and neurologic exam,
      and a semi-structured interview. Patients then receive a comprehensive assessment of
      systemic disease. Patients and first-degree family members also participate in a genetic
      study.

      Any patient who experiences an unusual exacerbation of symptoms or significant side effects
      is removed from the study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 12 Years to 45 Years
Criteria:

        PROTOCOL ENTRY CRITERIA:

        --Disease Characteristics--

        Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders IV lifetime diagnosis of 1 or more
        of the following:

          -  Tourette syndrome (TS)

          -  Obsessive compulsive disorder

          -  Chronic tics

        Severely affected adolescents with a score of 3 or greater on the TS-Clinical Global
        Impression Scale eligible

        --Prior/Concurrent Therapy--

        At least 1 month since any medication

        --Patient Characteristics--

        Other:

          -  In good physical health

          -  No alcohol or substance abuse

          -  No Intelligence Quotient below 80

          -  Negative pregnancy test required of fertile women
      
