TITLE:
Phase II Randomized Pilot Study of Body Weight Support and Treadmill Training for Chronic Thoracic Spinal Cord Injury

CONDITION:
Spinal Cord Injury

INTERVENTION:
Exercise

SUMMARY:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Assess the ability of patients with and without sensorimotor loss below the
      thoracic spinal cord injury to execute coordinated whole-limb synergies sufficient for
      walking with full or partial weight support.

      II. Promote weight bearing, balance, and reciprocal leg movement in these patients.

      III. Elicit synchronized motor output within and between limbs in these patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This is a controlled, prospective study. Patients pairs matched for strata
      are randomly assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups. Patients are stratified into pairs by age,
      time since onset, Frankel grade, and Motor Score Index.

      One group receives body weight-supported treadmill training immediately after baseline
      clinical, biomechanical, and physiological measures. The second group is the control;
      baseline measures are identical but training is delayed for 3 months.

      Patients in both groups receive training 3 days/week for 3 months. Initial treadmill
      velocity is 18 meters/minute; velocity is increased in increments of 6 meters/minute until
      the maximum speed is achieved at which each patient exhibits the best locomotor capability
      at full weight bearing. Patients are trained with the minimal weight support assistance
      necessary for effective limb progression without excessive knee flexion or hyperextension.
      Polypropylene ankle-foot orthosis is allowed.

      Patients are re-tested after maximal treadmill velocity is achieved: following clonidine
      once a day for 3 days; clonidine twice a day for 3 days; cyproheptadine for 3 days; and an
      increased dose of cyproheptadine for 3 days. There is a 3-day washout between clonidine and
      cyproheptadine testing.

      Patients are not advanced if they experience adverse cardiovascular effects during therapy.
      No concurrent therapeutic exercise for the lower extremities is allowed.

      Kinematic, temporal, kinetic, spasticity, Frankel grading, Motor Index Score, metabolic, and
      functional outcome measures are evaluated at 3 and 6 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        PROTOCOL ENTRY CRITERIA:

        --Disease Characteristics-- Traumatic or ischemic spinal cord injury Single lesion between
        thoracic vertebrae 1 and 12 Confirmed by computerized tomography or magnetic resonance
        imaging At least 12 months since onset of injury Motor recovery as follows: Ability to
        step not recovered OR Abnormal gait and maximum walking speed below one-half normal slow
        casual velocity of 60 meters/minute --Prior/Concurrent Therapy-- At least 3 months since
        completion of outpatient physical therapy Antispasticity agents tapered to lowest dose
        that limits flexor or extensor spasms interfering with sitting or comfort --Patient
        Characteristics-- Age: 16 to 60 Other: No clinically significant depression No drug abuse
        No urinary tract infection No painful musculoskeletal dysfunction, e.g., contracture or
        unhealed fracture No pressure sore No other medical contraindication to treadmill
        training, e.g.: Cardiopulmonary disease Dysautonomia
      
