TITLE:
Blood Vessel Function in HIV-Infected Patients Taking Anti-HIV Drugs

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This is a substudy of ACTG A5142. The purpose of this substudy is to evaluate blood vessel
      function in HIV-infected patients taking anti-HIV drugs.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Endothelial dysfunction, assessed by measurement of brachial artery reactivity, is
      associated with coronary artery disease. Previous studies showed that patients taking HIV
      protease inhibitors (PIs) had a buildup of fatty deposits in their arteries and impaired
      flow-mediated vasodilation of the brachial artery, whereas endothelial function was normal
      in HIV-infected individuals not taking PIs. The effect of three different antiretroviral
      regimens on endothelial function in antiretroviral nave HIV-infected patients will be
      examined in this substudy.

      Patients in this substudy will have Brachial Artery Reactivity Tests (BARTs), which are
      painless ultrasound tests of an artery in the lower arm. Brachial artery reactivity will be
      measured at entry and at 4 and 24 weeks after patients are randomized to one of three
      open-label drug regimens in ACTG A5142. Brachial artery reactivity in response to two
      vasoactive stimuli (flow-mediated and nitroglycerin) will be assessed by measuring brachial
      artery diameter and flow velocity. Blood will be drawn at Weeks 4 and 24 for insulin and
      lipid tests. Patients will fast and refrain from tobacco and caffeine use for at least 8
      hours prior to each study visit. For the duration of the substudy, patients will be asked
      not to change the amount of fruits, juices, antioxidants, and tea that they consume.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Participation in ACTG A5142 .

          -  Able and willing to give written informed consent and to report current smoking
             status.

          -  Men who have been on stable testosterone replacement for at least 3 months prior to
             entry and plan to continue to receive a stable dose during the substudy may enroll.
             Men who have discontinued testosterone therapy must be off for at least 3 months to
             be eligible.

          -  Women receiving oral contraceptives, hormone replacement, or progestational
             derivatives must have been on stable regimens for at least 3 months prior to
             enrollment and must plan to remain on the same dose for the duration of the study.
             Women who have discontinued such therapy must be off for at least 3 months to be
             eligible.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Coronary heart disease, peripheral vascular disease, or cerebrovascular disease.

          -  Diabetes mellitus, with the exception of a previous history of gestational or
             steroid-induced diabetes mellitus within 12 weeks prior to substudy entry.

          -  Insulin-sensitizing agents such as metformin, pioglitazone, and rosiglitazone.

          -  Lipid-lowering drugs within 6 weeks prior to substudy entry.

          -  Systemic glucocorticoids, long-acting inhaled steroids, and certain anabolic steroids
             within 30 days prior to substudy entry.

          -  Uncontrolled hypertension.

          -  Heavy use of vitamin supplements.
      
