TITLE:
Evaluation of Efficacy and Mechanisms of an Antiinflammatory Intervention for Chemotherapy Related Mucosal Injury

CONDITION:
Stomatitis

INTERVENTION:
Etanercept

SUMMARY:

      This study consisted of two parts: the pilot study and the main study. The purpose of the
      pilot study is to demonstrate the effectiveness of planned laboratory techniques to assess
      for TNF-alpha gene expression from unstimulated saliva, plasma, and mucosal epithelial cells
      in patients who have chemotherapy-related stomatitis.

      Main Study Description: Stomatitis is defined as inflammation of the mucous membranes of the
      oral cavity and oropharynx characterized by tissue erythema, edema, and atrophy, often
      progressing to ulceration. Stomatitis is a biologically complex, multifactorial, cancer
      treatment-related oral condition experienced by many oncology patients, which often leads to
      a cascade of negative sequelae including oropharyngeal pain, critical treatment alterations
      or cessation, and decreased quality of life. The optimal treatment strategies for stomatitis
      have not been established. There is a critical need to examine the pathogenesis of and to
      evaluate interventions for stomatitis and related acute oropharyngeal pain in the randomized
      controlled clinical trial setting using valid and reliable stomatitis assessment tools to
      both advance the science of cancer treatment-related oral toxicities and improve patient
      care. Therefore, the purpose of this randomized controlled clinical trial is to elucidate
      the role of inflammation in stomatitis by testing the effects of a novel tumor necrosis
      factor (TNF) fusion protein etanercept, (Enbrel, Immunex Corporation, Seattle, WA) on the
      incidence and severity of stomatitis. The actions of this fusion protein, which binds
      specifically to TNF preventing its interaction with cellular receptors and altering the
      inflammatory cascade, may provide insight into the role of inflammation in stomatitis. An
      etanercept effect is defined as a prevention or amelioration of stomatitis and acute
      oropharyngeal pain and/or changes in levels of tissue mediators. If stomatitis is primarily
      a consequence of a mucosal inflammatory response, then we hypothesize that this oral
      condition will be responsive to binding of TNF(alpha). Elaboration of the role of
      inflammatory cell signaling associated with stomatitis and the effect of TNF(alpha) may
      elucidate the mechanisms related to the pathogenesis of stomatitis and to other mucosal
      conditions.

      Patients who are scheduled to receive autologous or allogenic peripheral blood stem cell or
      bone marrow transplant will be invited to participate in this study during a regularly
      scheduled pre-treatment visit. Written informed consent will be obtained from all
      participants. Patients will be randomized to receive either etanercept mouthwash or placebo,
      which will both be administered by protocol schedule. Stomatitis and oropharyngeal pain will
      be measured at baseline and at specified post-chemotherapy time points corresponding with
      the predicted stomatitis onset, peak, and healing time course. TNF(alpha) levels in buccal
      mucosa, analyzed by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction techniques, and blood
      levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, growth factors, and inflammatory mediators will also
      be measured at baseline and at specified post-chemotherapy time points corresponding with
      the predicted stomatitis onset, peak, and healing time course.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This study consisted of two parts: the pilot study and the main study. The purpose of the
      pilot study is to demonstrate the effectiveness of planned laboratory techniques to assess
      for TNF-alpha gene expression from unstimulated saliva, plasma, and mucosal epithelial cells
      in patients who have chemotherapy-related stomatitis.

      Main Study Description: Stomatitis is defined as inflammation of the mucous membranes of the
      oral cavity and oropharynx characterized by tissue erythema, edema, and atrophy, often
      progressing to ulceration. Stomatitis is a biologically complex, multifactorial, cancer
      treatment-related oral condition experienced by many oncology patients, which often leads to
      a cascade of negative sequelae including oropharyngeal pain, critical treatment alterations
      or cessation, and decreased quality of life. The optimal treatment strategies for stomatitis
      have not been established. There is a critical need to examine the pathogenesis of and to
      evaluate interventions for stomatitis and related acute oropharyngeal pain in the randomized
      controlled clinical trial setting using valid and reliable stomatitis assessment tools to
      both advance the science of cancer treatment-related oral toxicities and improve patient
      care. Therefore, the purpose of this randomized controlled clinical trial is to elucidate
      the role of inflammation in stomatitis by testing the effects of a novel tumor necrosis
      factor (TNF) fusion protein etanercept, (Enbrel) (Registered Trademark), Immunex
      Corporation, Seattle, WA) on the incidence and severity of stomatitis. The actions of this
      fusion protein, which binds specifically to TNF preventing its interaction with cellular
      receptors and altering the inflammatory cascade, may provide insight into the role of
      inflammation in stomatitis. An etanercept effect is defined as a prevention or amelioration
      of stomatitis and acute oropharyngeal pain and/or changes in levels of tissue mediators. If
      stomatitis is primarily a consequence of a mucosal inflammatory response, then we
      hypothesize that this oral condition will be responsive to binding of TNFa. Elaboration of
      the role of inflammatory cell signaling associated with stomatitis and the effect of TNFa
      may elucidate the mechanisms related to the pathogenesis of stomatitis and to other mucosal
      conditions.

      Patients who are scheduled to receive autologous or allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell or
      bone marrow transplant will be invited to participate in this study during a regularly
      scheduled pre-treatment visit. Written informed consent will be obtained from all
      participants. Patients will be randomized to receive either etanercept 2.5mg in 20cc
      mouthwash or placebo 20cc mouthwash, which will both be administered by protocol schedule.
      Stomatitis and oropharyngeal pain will be measured at baseline and at specified
      post-chemotherapy time points corresponding with the predicted stomatitis onset, peak, and
      healing time course. TNFa levels in buccal mucosa, analyzed by real time polymerase chain
      reaction techniques, and blood levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, growth factors, and
      inflammatory mediators will also be measured at baseline and at specified post-chemotherapy
      time points corresponding with the predicted stomatitis onset, peak, and healing time
      course.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

               1. Male or female oncology patients who are enrolled in participating stomatogenic
                  autologous or allogeneic PBSCT/BMT protocols, and are willing to participate in
                  this study concurrently

               2. Able to understand and sign protocol consent or assent

               3. Age 16 years or older

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

          1. Pregnant or lactating females

          2. Unable to follow oral rinsing directions

          3. Intubation

          4. Chronic use of medications confounding assessment of the inflammatory response
             (non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs, antihistamines, and steroids- with the
             exception of decadron that is commonly used as an antiemetic in the PBSCT/BMT
             setting)

          5. Pre-existing oral infection or upper respiratory infection that might maximize the
             possibility of an infection or sepsis contributing to a drug-related adverse event

          6. Known hypersensitivity or allergic reaction to etanercept
      
