TITLE:
Soy Protein Supplement in Preventing Prostate Cancer in Patients With Elevated Prostate-Specific Antigen Levels

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
soy protein isolate

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Soy protein supplement may prevent or delay the development of prostate cancer in
      patients who have elevated prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase II trial to determine the effectiveness of soy protein supplement
      in preventing prostate cancer in patients who have elevated PSA levels.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the reduction in the rate of prostatic cellular proliferation in patients with
           an elevated PSA (5 to 10 ng/mL) and a negative biopsy for prostate cancer when treated
           with daily soy protein supplements vs placebo.

        -  Compare the effect of these regimens on additional biomarkers of prostate cancer (PSA,
           high-grade prostate intraepithelial neoplasia, induction of apoptosis, sex steroid
           receptor expression, and loss of glutathione S-transferase-pi) in these patients.

        -  Compare the effect of these regimens on quality of life, including urinary and sexual
           function, in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to race (Caucasian vs African American). After 2 weeks of daily
      oral placebo, patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral soy protein supplement daily for 12 months.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo daily for 12 months. Quality of life is assessed
           at baseline and at 6 and 12 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 160 patients (80 per arm) will be accrued for this study
      within 12 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 50 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed absence of prostate cancer

               -  Atypical adenomatous hyperplasia or prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia
                  (high-grade or low-grade) allowed

               -  Abnormal baseline transrectal ultrasound and digital rectal exam allowed

               -  Biopsy may be before or after study entry, but must be within the past 90 days

          -  PSA 5-10 ng/mL

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  50 and over

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No known allergy to soy protein or milk protein

          -  No invasive cancer within the past 5 years except non-melanoma skin cancer

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  No prior hormonal therapy

          -  No prior finasteride

          -  No concurrent hormonal therapy

          -  No concurrent finasteride

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Surgery:

          -  At least 6 months since prior transurethral resection of the prostate

          -  No prior orchiectomy

          -  No concurrent orchiectomy

        Other:

          -  No other concurrent soy products
      
