TITLE:
Methylphenidate to Improve Quality of Life in Patients Undergoing Radiation Therapy for Brain Tumors

CONDITION:
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors

INTERVENTION:
methylphenidate hydrochloride

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Methylphenidate may decrease side effects of radiation therapy. It is not yet
      known if methylphenidate is effective in improving quality of life in patients with primary
      or metastatic brain tumors.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to determine the effectiveness of methylphenidate in
      improving quality of life in patients who have brain tumors and are undergoing radiation
      therapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the effect of d-methylphenidate on fatigue in patients receiving radiotherapy
           for primary or metastatic brain tumors.

        -  Determine the effect of this drug on the quality of life of these patients.

        -  Determine the effect of this drug on depression in these patients.

        -  Determine the effect of this drug on global neurocognitive function, including
           attention and concentration, memory, language, visuospatial skills, and executive
           function, in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified by tumor type (primary vs metastatic), treatment (radiotherapy vs
      radiotherapy and chemotherapy), and Karnofsky performance status (70% or 80% vs 90% or
      100%). Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

      All patients undergo radiotherapy over weeks 1-4.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral d-methylphenidate twice daily on weeks 1-12.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo twice daily on weeks 1-12. In both arms, quality
           of life is assessed at baseline, at the end of radiotherapy, and at 4, 8, and 12 weeks
           after radiotherapy.

      Patients are followed at 4 weeks.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 200 patients (100 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 18 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 120 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed metastatic brain tumor OR

          -  Histologically confirmed primary brain tumor

               -  Glioblastoma multiforme

               -  Anaplastic astrocytoma

               -  Anaplastic oligodendroglioma

               -  Anaplastic mixed oligoastrocytoma

               -  Low-grade glioma

               -  Meningioma

               -  Ependymoma

          -  Planned external beam cranial radiotherapy (partial or whole brain) with a total dose
             of at least 25 Gy in at least 10 fractions of 180-300 cGy each

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  Karnofsky 70-100%

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 3 months

        Hematopoietic:

          -  WBC  1,500/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin  10.0 g/dL

          -  Platelet count  75,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No hypertension or other cardiovascular disease requiring antihypertensives and/or
             other cardiovascular medications

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No other serious medical or psychiatric illness that would preclude study
             participation

          -  No hypersensitivity to study drug

          -  No history of steroid psychosis

          -  No family history of or active Tourette's Syndrome

          -  No prior or active glaucoma

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  Prior or concurrent chemotherapy allowed

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Concurrent steroids allowed

        Radiotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  Prior radiotherapy allowed except to brain (including stereotactic radiosurgery)

          -  No concurrent craniospinal axis radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No prior or concurrent medications for attention deficit disorder, anxiety disorder,
             schizophrenia, or substance abuse

          -  No concurrent anti-depressants
      
