TITLE:
S0031, ZD 1839 in Treating Patients With Advanced Cancer of the Urinary Tract

CONDITION:
Bladder Cancer

INTERVENTION:
gefitinib

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Biological therapies such as ZD 1839 may interfere with the growth of the tumor
      cells and slow the growth of cancer of the urinary tract.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of ZD 1839 in treating patients who have
      advanced cancer of the urinary tract.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the 6-month progression-free survival rate of patients with advanced
           transitional cell carcinoma of the urothelium treated with ZD 1839.

        -  Determine the overall survival and response (confirmed complete and partial response)
           in these patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Evaluate the changes in growth factor protein kinase expression before and after
           treatment and at the time of disease progression in these patients treated with this
           regimen.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive oral ZD 1839 once daily. Treatment continues in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30-55 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the urothelium
             (bladder, renal pelvis, ureter, or urethra) not curable by surgery or radiotherapy

               -  Any T, N0-3, M1 or unresectable M0

               -  Poorly differentiated TCC, predominant TCC with rare foci of squamous
                  differentiation, or rare foci of adenocarcinoma allowed

          -  Measurable disease

               -  At least 1 lesion accessible for biopsy

               -  Soft tissue disease that has been irradiated within the past 2 months not
                  considered measurable disease

          -  Progressive or recurrent disease after only 1 prior systemic chemotherapy regimen for
             advanced disease

          -  No adenocarcinoma, small cell carcinoma, sarcoma, squamous cell carcinoma, or mixed
             histology

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  Any age

        Performance status:

          -  Zubrod 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3

          -  Absolute granulocyte count at least 1,200/mm3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  SGOT no greater than 2 times ULN

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2 times ULN

        Other:

          -  No other prior malignancy within the past 5 years except adequately treated basal
             cell or squamous cell skin cancer, carcinoma in situ of the cervix, or adequately
             treated stage I or II cancer currently in complete remission

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  No concurrent filgrastim (G-CSF)

        Chemotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No prior adjuvant chemotherapy

          -  At least 28 days since prior chemotherapy and recovered

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 28 days since prior radiotherapy and recovered

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 28 days since prior surgery and recovered

        Other:

          -  No prior systemic therapy between biopsy and study entry

          -  At least 28 days since prior intravesical therapy and recovered

          -  No concurrent agents that induce CYP3A4 (e.g., nafcillin, rifampin, carbamazepine,
             phenobarbital, phenytoin, or St. John's Wort)
      
