TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy Plus Filgrastim in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors

CONDITION:
Bladder Cancer

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Colony-stimulating factors such as filgrastim may increase the
      number of immune cells found in bone marrow or peripheral blood and may help a person's
      immune system recover from the side effects of chemotherapy.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy plus
      filgrastim in treating patients who have advanced solid tumors.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of docetaxel in combination with gemcitabine and
           filgrastim (G-CSF) in patients with advanced solid tumors.

        -  Determine the dose-limiting toxicity associated with this regimen in these patients.

        -  Assess the objective anti-tumor response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine fatigue and blood cytokines in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of docetaxel.

      Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour followed by gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on day
      1. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously daily beginning on day 2 and
      continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every 14 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of docetaxel until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Fatigue is assessed at baseline and then at weeks 2, 5, 7, and 9 during therapy.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 30 patients will be accrued for this study within 15-22
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed advanced solid tumor that is not curable by
             surgery or radiotherapy

               -  Sarcoma

               -  Melanoma

               -  Carcinoma of unknown primary

               -  Pancreatic cancer

               -  Lung cancer

               -  Ovarian cancer

               -  Breast cancer

               -  Bladder cancer

               -  Gastric cancer

               -  Esophageal cancer

               -  Prostate cancer

               -  Head and neck cancer

          -  No hematopoietic or lymphoid tumors

          -  Measurable or evaluable disease

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  Over 18

        Performance status:

          -  Karnofsky 60-100%

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Absolute neutrophil count greater than 1,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count greater than 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin normal

          -  AST and/or ALT no greater than 5 times upper limit of normal (ULN) if alkaline
             phosphatase no greater than ULN OR

          -  Alkaline phosphatase no greater than 5 times ULN if AST and ALT no greater than ULN
             OR

          -  AST and/or ALT no greater than 1.5 times ULN if alkaline phosphatase no greater than
             2.5 times ULN

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2 times ULN OR

          -  Creatinine clearance at least 50 mL/min

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No congestive heart failure

          -  No unstable angina

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No uncontrolled infection

          -  No known sensitivity to E. coli-derived products

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  At least 2 weeks since prior cytotoxic anti-tumor therapy (4 weeks for nitrosourea or
             mitomycin) and recovered

          -  No prior docetaxel or gemcitabine

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 2 weeks since prior radiotherapy and recovered

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified
      
