TITLE:
Arsenic Trioxide in Treating Patients With Myelodysplastic Syndromes

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
arsenic trioxide

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of arsenic trioxide in treating patients
      who have myelodysplastic syndromes.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the percentage of patients with low-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) who
           achieve a major hematologic improvement after treatment with arsenic trioxide.

        -  Determine the percentage of patients with high-risk MDS who achieve complete or partial
           remission or major hematological improvement after treatment with this drug.

        -  Determine the durability of responses in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine the duration of overall and progression-free survival of patients treated
           with this drug.

        -  Assess the quality of life of patients treated with this drug.

        -  Assess the toxicity profile of this drug in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to risk score (low
      risk vs high risk).

      Patients receive arsenic trioxide IV 5 days a week on weeks 1-2. Treatment repeats every 4
      weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients with stable disease or better may receive additional courses of treatment. Patients
      who achieve a complete remission (CR) should receive 2 additional courses of treatment after
      documentation of CR.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, every 8 weeks during study, and then at 4 weeks
      after study completion.

      Patients are followed at 4 weeks, every 3 months until completion of study treatment, and
      then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30-110 patients (15-55 per stratum) will be accrued for this
      study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS)

               -  Refractory anemia (RA)

               -  RA with ringed sideroblasts

               -  RA with excess blasts (RAEB)

               -  RAEB in transformation

               -  Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia

          -  Low-risk MDS patients:

               -  If serum erythropoietin less than 200 IU/mL, must have failed prior recombinant
                  epoetin alfa (EPO) trial

          -  No prior acute myeloid leukemia

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  Karnofsky 70-100%

        Life expectancy:

          -  More than 3 months

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 2.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  SGPT and SGOT no greater than 2.5 times ULN

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 times ULN

        Cardiovascular:

          -  Absolute QT interval less than 460 msec in the presence of magnesium greater than 1.8
             mg/dL and potassium greater than 4.0 mEq/L

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 30 days since prior biologic therapy (except recombinant EPO in low-risk MDS
             patients)

        Chemotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  At least 30 days since prior radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  At least 30 days since prior cytotoxic agents

          -  At least 30 days since prior investigational agents

          -  No prior arsenic trioxide
      
