TITLE:
Temozolomide and O6-benzylguanine in Treating Children With Solid Tumors

CONDITION:
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors

INTERVENTION:
O6-benzylguanine

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combining temozolomide and
      O6-benzylguanine in treating children who have solid tumors that have not responded to
      previous therapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of temozolomide administered with a biologically
           active dose of O6-benzylguanine (O6-BG) in children with refractory solid tumors.

        -  Determine the dose-limiting toxicity and the toxicity profile of this combination in
           these patients.

        -  Assess the plasma pharmacokinetics of O6-BG and its active metabolite, 8-oxo-O6-BG, in
           these patients.

        -  Assess the plasma pharmacokinetics of this combination in these patients.

        -  Correlate levels of alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase in peripheral blood mononuclear
           cells with the degree of hematologic toxicity of this combination in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive O6-benzylguanine (O6-BG) IV over 1 hour followed 30 minutes later by oral
      temozolomide daily for 5 days. Treatment continues every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the
      absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      Sequential dose escalation of O6-BG is followed by sequential dose escalation of
      temozolomide. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of O6-BG and temozolomide
      until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of each is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose
      preceding that at which at least 2 of 3 or 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and prior to courses 1, 3, 6, 8, and 12.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 21-48 patients will be accrued for this study within 1-2
      years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 21 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed solid tumor refractory to standard therapy and for which no
             potentially curative therapy exists, including, but not limited to:

               -  Rhabdomyosarcoma and other soft tissue sarcomas

               -  Ewing's family of tumors

               -  Osteosarcoma

               -  Neuroblastoma

               -  Wilms' tumor

               -  Hepatic tumors

               -  Germ cell tumors

               -  Primary brain tumor

          -  Histological confirmation may be waived for brainstem or optic gliomas

          -  Measurable or evaluable disease

          -  Evidence of progressive disease on prior chemotherapy or radiotherapy or persistent
             disease after prior surgery

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  21 and under

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 8 weeks

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Absolute granulocyte count greater than 1,500/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin greater than 8 g/dL

          -  Platelet count greater than 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin normal

          -  SGPT less than 2 times upper limit of normal

          -  No significant hepatic dysfunction

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine normal OR

          -  Creatinine clearance at least 60 mL/min

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No significant cardiac dysfunction

        Pulmonary:

          -  No significant pulmonary dysfunction

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  Able to swallow capsules

          -  No significant unrelated systemic illness that would preclude study (e.g., serious
             infections or organ dysfunction)

          -  No prior hypersensitivity to dacarbazine, temozolomide, or polyethylene glycol

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  At least 1 week since prior colony-stimulating factors (e.g., filgrastim [G- CSF],
             sargramostim [GM-CSF], or epoetin alfa)

          -  At least 4 months since prior myeloablative therapy requiring bone marrow or stem
             cell transplantation

          -  No concurrent anticancer immunotherapy

        Chemotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 3 weeks since prior chemotherapy (4 weeks for nitrosoureas) and recovered

          -  Prior temozolomide allowed provided not administered within past 3 months, no severe
             toxicities experienced during prior course, and not given in combination with other
             agents designed to inactivate alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase

          -  No other concurrent investigational or standard anticancer chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Concurrent corticosteroids for control of brain tumor-associated edema allowed
             provided on stable or decreasing dose for at least 1 week prior to study

        Radiotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior limited-field radiotherapy

          -  At least 4 months since prior craniospinal irradiation, total body irradiation, or
             radiotherapy to more than half of the pelvis

          -  Recovered from prior radiotherapy

          -  No concurrent anticancer radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Other:

          -  At least 4 weeks since other prior investigational therapy and recovered

          -  No other concurrent anticancer investigational agents
      
