TITLE:
Brain Imaging and Retreatment Study of Persistent Lyme Disease

CONDITION:
Lyme Disease

INTERVENTION:
ceftriaxone

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether patients with persistent memory problems
      after Lyme disease benefit from an additional longer course of IV antibiotic therapy; to use
      modern brain imaging technology to determine whether the problem in the central nervous
      system is primarily one of poor blood flow or one of impaired nerve cell functioning; and to
      try to identify biological markers prior to treatment that will identify patients who are
      more or less likely to respond to the study treatment.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Some people with a history of Lyme disease continue to have problems despite having received
      textbook duration antibiotic therapy. When memory, attention, or thinking problems
      persist, the syndrome is called persistent Lyme disease (PLD). This study seeks to answer
      critical scientific questions about the treatment and cause of PLD symptoms.

      This 24-week treatment study will evaluate each patients response to treatment using
      neuropsychological testing and state-of-the-art brain imaging. The brain tests include
      neuropsychological testing of memory and attention, brain imaging (MRI and PET scans) to
      look at blood flow in the brain and nerve cell structure and metabolism, a neurological
      exam, and studies of the fluid that surrounds the brain (cerebrospinal fluid). The treatment
      involves 10 weeks of either intravenous antibiotic called ceftriaxone (also known as
      Rocephin) or intravenous placebo (inactive substance). After the first visit to Columbia
      Presbyterian Medical Center, the remaining treatments will be done in the patients home.
      Patients will be screened over the phone and in person to confirm study eligibility.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

        Eligible participants must:

          -  Be 18-65 years old

          -  Have persistent problems with memory, verbal fluency, or attention after having
             contracted Lyme disease.

          -  Be able to travel to New York for 4-5 evaluations over the course of one year. Travel
             costs for participants in need may be partially or fully reimbursable.

          -  Have had a history of well-documented Lyme disease using the CDC's clinical criteria
             and a current positive IgG Western blot or PCR.

          -  Have received, at some point in the past at least 3 weeks of IV antibiotic therapy
             for Lyme disease.

        Exclusion Criteria:

        Ineligible from participation are people with the following:

          -  Other major medical or neurologic problems

          -  Smoke more than 10 cigarettes a day

          -  Uncontrolled high blood pressure

          -  Allergy to ceftriaxone (Rocephin)

          -  History of marked cocaine abuse

        Twenty healthy subjects are also being sought for the study.
      
