TITLE:
Study of Health Promotion in Patients With Early-Stage Breast or Prostate Cancer

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
fatigue assessment and management

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Telephone counseling by a nutritionist and a personal trainer may improve
      physical function and quality of life in patients who have early-stage breast cancer or
      prostate cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized clinical trial to compare the effectiveness of a home-based, diet and
      exercise-based counseling program with that of a standard home-based counseling program in
      promoting health in patients who have early-stage breast cancer or prostate cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of a diet and exercise-based home-based counseling program versus
           a standard home-based counseling program for improving physical function at 6 and 12
           months for patients with early-stage breast or prostate cancer.

        -  Compare the effects of these home-based programs on diet quality, physical activity,
           weight status, depression, and quality of life of these patients.

        -  Compare the factors, such as gender, race, and social support, that interact with these
           home-based programs to predict program efficacy in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive home-based telephone counseling by a personal nutritionist and
           a personal trainer.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive home-based standard health telephone counseling in unrelated
           areas of cancer care (e.g., sun exposure, screening, and falls prevention).

      In both arms, counseling continues every 2 weeks for 6 months.

      Patients are followed at 6 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 420 patients (210 per arm) will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 65 Years to 120 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of early-stage breast or prostate cancer within the past 18 months

          -  Dietary and physical activity habits and baseline functional status that places
             patient at risk

          -  Potentially able to increase physical activity and to follow a low-fat, plant-based
             diet

          -  Hormone receptor status:

               -  Not specified

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  65 and over

        Sex:

          -  Male or female

        Menopausal status:

          -  Not specified

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  Able to speak and write English

          -  No other malignancy within the past 5 years except nonmelanoma skin cancer

          -  No other illness or condition that would preclude adherence to a plant-based diet or
             exercise

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified
      
