TITLE:
Families In Recovery From Stroke Trial (F.I.R.S.T.)

CONDITION:
Stroke

INTERVENTION:
home-based sessions/family meetings with trained clinician

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this trial is to assess the effects of a psychosocial intervention on
      functional recovery after stroke.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Prior research shows that, after a stroke, emotional support from friends and family is very
      important in recovery from stroke. This study was designed to test whether a program of
      family sessions would lead to a faster recovery for stroke patients and lower stress for
      their families. The sessions were designed to mobilize the family and close friends of a
      stroke patient and help them to provide effective support to the patient. The aim of the
      study was to help patients who have recently had a stroke to achieve greater functional
      ability. Participants were randomly assigned to either the standard care or the treatment
      group. Those in the treatment group received standard care plus a maximum of 16 home-based
      sessions, or family meetings, with a specially-trained clinician. (The majority of
      participants received 14 or 15 sessions.) The sessions included stroke education,
      information about services and community resources, assistance with problem solving to aid
      in gaining independence, help with coping, and emotional support. The study is no longer
      enrolling patients and the study data has been collected. The data is now being analyzed.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 45 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion:

          -  patients with ischemic stroke or non-traumatic intracerebral hemorrhage, with
             residual deficit origin;

          -  age 45 or older

          -  stroke severity (3-8 on the NIH stroke severity scale); and

          -  able to participate in the intervention (due to, for example, ability to communicate
             or level of social connectedness).

        Exclusion:

          -  patients living outside the greater Boston area;

          -  admitted from a nursing home;

          -  terminally ill;

          -  severely aphasic;

          -  significantly cognitively impaired;

          -  unable to speak English; and

          -  under 45 years of age.
      
