TITLE:
Diagnostic Trial in Patients Who Are Undergoing Surgery for Early Stage Mouth Cancer

CONDITION:
Head and Neck Cancer

INTERVENTION:
immunohistochemistry staining method

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Diagnostic procedures to detect cancer cells in sentinel lymph nodes may help
      plan effective cancer treatment.

      PURPOSE: Diagnostic trial to study the effectiveness of lymph node mapping and sentinel
      lymph node lymphadenectomy in patients who are undergoing surgery to remove early-stage
      cancer of the mouth.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine whether a negative hematoxylin and eosin finding from the lymphatic mapping
           and sentinel node lymphadenectomy procedure accurately predicts the negativity of the
           other cervical lymph nodes in patients with stage I or II squamous cell carcinoma of
           the oral cavity.

        -  Determine the extent and pattern of disease spread in the nodal bed in these patients.

        -  Obtain data on the use of immunohistochemistry to assess nodes in these patients.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Patient must be > 18 years of age.

          2. Patient must have an ECOG/Zubrod performance status of < 2.

          3. Patient must have a histologically confirmed primary T1 or T2 invasive OCSCCA that is
             > 6mm and < 4 cm in size. The primary tumor must be amenable to curative resection
             and must be diagnosed within 42 days prior to surgery.

          4. Patient must be clinically stage N0 confirmed with a negative imaging study employing
             contrastenhanced CT scan (or MRI with gadolinium in patients with iodine allergy).
             Lymph nodes will be considered positive if:

               -  Greater than 1.5 cm in size for levels I and II.

               -  Greater than 1 cm in size for levels III, IV, V and VI.

               -  If any lymph node exhibits central necrosis, irregular enhancement of a poorly
                  defined or irregular capsular border.

               -  Groups of three or more asymmetrically located LNs, with a minimal axial
                  diameter of 8 mm or more, in the suspected tumor drainage area are present.

               -  NOTE: All CT scans must be read by a neuroradiologist.

          5. Patient must be medically fit for neck dissection.

          6. Patient or the patient's legally acceptable representative must provide a signed and
             dated written informed consent prior to registration or any study-related procedures.

          7. Female patient of childbearing potential must have negative serum pregnancy test
             within 30 daysprior to registration.

          8. If the patient is a survivor of a prior cancer, ALL of the following criteria are
             met:

               1. Patient has undergone potentially curative therapy for all prior malignancies,

               2. No evidence of any prior malignancies for at least 5 years with no evidence of
                  recurrence (except for effectively treated basal cell or squamous carcinoma of
                  the skin, carcinoma in-situ of the cervix that has been effectively treated by
                  surgery alone, or lobular carcinoma in-situ of the ipsilateral or contralateral
                  breast treated by surgery alone),

               3. Patient is deemed by their treating physician to be at low risk for recurrence
                  from prior malignancies.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Patient received prior treatment to the cervical lymph nodes, including surgery or
             radiation therapy.

          2. Patient experienced prior extensive trauma to the anterior cervical region of the
             neck.

          3. Patient has lesions that cross the vermilion border involving lip skin.

          4. Patient has had previous tumor resection involving the neck.

          5. Patient has had injections of radioactive material for previous scans within 48 hours
             of the radiolymphoscintigraphy.
      
