TITLE:
Trial With HuMax-CD4 in Patients With Rheumatoid Arthritis Failing Treatment With Methotrexate and a TNF-alpha Blocker

CONDITION:
Rheumatoid Arthritis

INTERVENTION:
HuMax-CD4

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether HuMax-CD4 is effective in the treatment of
      active rheumatoid arthritis in patients who have failed treatment with Methotrexate and at
      least one TNF-alpha blocking agent.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This is a multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, randomized trial
      of HuMax-CD4 in the treatment of patients with active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who have
      failed treatment with Methotrexate (MTX) and at least one TNF-alpha blocking agent. Patients
      are randomized to receive one of two doses of HuMax-CD4 or placebo. The drug will be
      administered as a subcutaneous infusion (given just under the skin), more often in the
      beginning and then followed by a maintenance dose. There is a 4 week follow up period, and
      the final evaluation of the clinical endpoints takes place 26 weeks after treatment start.
      The trial lasts about 28 weeks in all.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  A diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis according to the American College of Rheumatology
             1987 revised criteria (ACR) of at least 6 months duration.

          -  Active disease at the time of screening.

          -  Unable to tolerate Methotrexate, or lack of efficacy after a minimum of 6 months
             treatment.

          -  Failure to tolerate treatment with either Enbrel or Remicade, or lack of efficacy
             after at least 3 months treatment with one of these agents.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Active autoimmune disease requiring therapy (other than rheumatoid arthritis and
             secondary Sjgren's disease).

          -  The use of certain treatments or drugs for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis within 4
             weeks of participation in the trial.

          -  Syndromes such as Fibromyalgia which require chronic pain treatment.

          -  Most past or current cancers.

          -  Chronic or current infectious disease such as, but not limited to, chronic renal
             infection, chronic chest, nasal or throat infections, tuberculosis, hepatitis B and
             C.

          -  History of infected joint prosthesis within 5 years.

          -  Most active medical conditions such as heart disease, kidney disease, liver disease,
             blood diseases, hormonal disturbances, lung disease, psychiatric disease.

          -  Drug or alcohol abuse.

          -  Pregnant or breast-feeding women may not participate. Women of childbearing potential
             must use either contraceptive pills or an intra-uterine device for the entire study
             period.
      
