TITLE:
CP-461 for the Treatment of Crohn's Disease

CONDITION:
Crohn's Disease

INTERVENTION:
CP-461

SUMMARY:

      Patients with moderately to severely active Crohn's disease will be treated with oral CP-461
      200 mg (2 x 100 mg capsules) twice-daily for 8 weeks.

      The purpose of this study is to see if CP-461 improves the symptoms of Crohn's disease
      and/or the patient's quality of life. Patient's safety will be monitored throughout the
      study.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Men and women > or = 18 years of age.

          -  Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI) of > or = 220 and < or = 400.

          -  Crohn's disease of at least 3 months duration with colitis, ileitis, or ileocolitis,
             confirmed by radiography or endoscopy.

          -  Men and women of childbearing potential must use adequate birth control measures
             (e.g. abstinence, oral contraceptives, intrauterine device, barrier method with
             spermicide, or surgical sterilization).

          -  Concomitant medications:

               -  If using aminosalicylates, the patient must have been using the aminosalicylates
                  for at least 2 months before pre-screening. The dose must be stable for at least
                  2 weeks before pre-screening. If aminosalicylates are to be discontinued, it
                  must be done at least 2 weeks before pre-screening.

               -  If using oral corticosteroids, the patient must have been receiving them for at
                  least 2 months and must be on a stable dosage (< or = 40 mg/day prednisone
                  equivalent) for at least 2 weeks before pre-screening.

               -  If using infliximab, the patient must not have received an infliximab infusion
                  for at least 12 weeks.

               -  If using azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP), or mycophenolate mofetil, the
                  start date must be at least 3 months prior to pre-screening and the dose must be
                  stable for at least 8 weeks before pre-screening.

               -  If using methotrexate, the patient must have been using methotrexate for at
                  least 4 months before pre-screening with a stable dosage of at least 6 weeks.

               -  If using Crohn's disease-specific antibiotics, the patient must have been using
                  them for at least 2 weeks at a stable dosage.

          -  The screening laboratory tests must meet the following criteria:

               -  Hemoglobin > or = 8.5

               -  WBC > or = 3.5 x 10 9/L

               -  Neutrophils > or = 1.5 x 10 9/L

               -  Platelets > or = 100 x 10 9/L

               -  Serum creatinine less than 2.2 mg/dL.

               -  Transaminases (AST/ALT) must be < or = 1.5 times the upper limit of normal range
                  for the laboratory conducting the test.

               -  Bilirubin must be WNL.

          -  Patient must be able to adhere to the study visit schedule and other protocol
             requirements.

          -  The patient must be capable of giving informed consent and the consent must be
             obtained before any study specific screening procedures.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Local manifestations of Crohn's disease such as strictures, abscesses, or other
             disease complications for which surgery might be indicated. Conditions that might
             preclude utilization of CDAI to assess response to therapy (such as "short gut"
             syndrome). If abscess is present, it should be drained before pre-screening, with at
             least 3 weeks between drainage of the abscess and pre-screening.

          -  Positive stool culture for enteric pathogens, pathogenic ova or parasites or
             Clostridium difficile toxin.

          -  Pregnancy, nursing, or unwillingness to comply with birth control.

          -  Patients who are currently receiving or have been treated with cyclosporine,
             tacrolimus, or sirolimus within 4 weeks of pre-screening.

          -  Infliximab infusion within 12 weeks of pre-screening.

          -  Rectally administered steroids within 2 weeks of pre-screening.

          -  Treatment with parenteral nutrition (TPN) within 3 weeks of prescreening.

          -  Signs or symptoms of severe, progressive, or uncontrolled renal, hepatic,
             hematologic, endocrine, pulmonary, cardiac, neurologic, or cerebral disease.

          -  Presence of a transplanted organ.

          -  Malignancy within the past 5 years (except for squamous or basal cell carcinoma of
             the skin that has been treated with no evidence of recurrence).

          -  Known substance abuse (drug or alcohol) during the last two years.

          -  Patients with a fever > or = 100.5 degrees F.

          -  The patient is unable to return for follow-up evaluation.

          -  The patient has received an investigational drug or device within 30 days before the
             initiation of therapy.

          -  Refusal to sign the informed consent.

          -  The patient is, in the opinions of the investigators, not an appropriate candidate
             for the study.

          -  The following laboratory abnormalities:

               -  Hemoglobin < 8.5

               -  WBC < 3.5 x 10 9/L

               -  Neutrophils < 1.5 x 10 9/L

               -  Platelets < 100 x 10 9/L

               -  Serum creatinine > or = 2.2 mg/dL

               -  Transaminases (AST/ALT) > 1.5 times the upper limit of normal range for the
                  laboratory conducting the test.

               -  Bilirubin > upper limit of normal range for the laboratory conducting the test.
      
