TITLE:
Phase II Study of Clofarabine in Pediatric Acute Myelogenous Leukemia (AML) Patients

CONDITION:
Leukemia, Myelocytic, Acute, Pediatric

INTERVENTION:
clofarabine (IV formulation)

SUMMARY:

      Clofarabine (injection) is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the
      treatment of pediatric patients 1 to 21 years old with relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia
      (ALL) who have had at least 2 prior treatment regimens.

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether Clofarabine is safe and effective in the
      treatment of Acute Myelogenous Leukemia (AML.)
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This is a non-randomized, open label, Phase II study of Clofarabine in pediatric patients
      with refractory or relapsed acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). Eligible patients must be in
      first or subsequent relapse or be refractory. Forty eligible patients will be enrolled in a
      Fleming 2-stage sequential study design in order to better assess the efficacy and safety of
      clofarabine in this patient population.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 21 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Have a diagnosis of AML according to FAB classification with greater than or equal to
             25% blasts in the bone marrow.

          -  Be less than or equal to 21 years old at time of initial diagnosis.

          -  Not be eligible for therapy of higher curative potential, and must be in first or
             subsequent relapse and/or refractory. Where an alternative therapy has been shown to
             prolong survival in an analogous population, this should be offered to the patient
             prior to discussing this study.

          -  Patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (M3) must have been treated with at least
             2 regimens-a retinoic acid-containing regimen and an arsenic trioxide-containing
             regimen before being considered for this study.

          -  Have a Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) of greater than or equal to 70.

          -  Provide signed, written informed consent from parent or guardian and assent from
             patients greater than or equal to 7 years old according to local IRB and
             institutional requirements.

          -  Have adequate organ function as indicated by the following laboratory values,
             obtained within 2 weeks prior to registration: Serum bilirubin less than or equal to
             1.5 x ULN; AST and ALT less than or equal to 5 x ULN; Serum Creatinine less than 2 x
             ULN for age. ULN= Institutional Upper Limit of Normal

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Received previous treatment with Clofarabine.

          -  Have an active, uncontrolled systemic infection considered opportunistic, life
             threatening, or clinically significant at the time of treatment.

          -  Are pregnant or lactating. Male and female patients who are fertile must agree to use
             an effective means of birth control (i.e., latex condom, diaphragm, cervical cap,
             etc) to avoid pregnancy.

          -  Have psychiatric disorders that would interfere with consent, study participation, or
             follow up.

          -  Are receiving any other chemotherapy. Patients must have been off previous therapy
             for at least 2 weeks (with the exception of intrathecal therapy, which is allowed up
             to 24hrs prior to 1st dose of study drug) and must have recovered from acute toxicity
             of all previous therapy prior to enrollment. Treatment may start earlier, following
             consultation with the ILEX Medical Monitor, if there is evidence of disease relapse
             prior to that time.

          -  Have any other severe concurrent disease, which, in the judgment of the investigator,
             would make the patient inappropriate for entry into this study.

          -  Have symptomatic CNS involvement.

          -  Febrile neutropenia at time of study entry.

          -  Known or suspected fungal infection (ie. patients on parenteral antifungal therapy).
      
