TITLE:
CORE: A Study of OPC-6535 With Asacol in Maintaining Ulcerative Colitis (UC) Remission

CONDITION:
Ulcerative Colitis

INTERVENTION:
OPC-6535

SUMMARY:

      This dose comparison study, taking place at over 200 sites worldwide, will compare the
      dosing, safety and efficacy of an investigational medicine OPC-6535 to the dosing, safety
      and efficacy of Asacol  in the maintenance of remission in subjects with ulcerative
      colitis.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Objective(s):

      This study will compare the safety and efficacy of 25 mg per day (QD) and 50 mg QD of
      OPC-6535 to 800 mg twice a day (BID) of Asacol in the maintenance of remission in subjects
      with ulcerative colitis.

      Subject Population:

        -  Subjects with ulcerative colitis currently in remission defined as rectal bleeding (RB)
           and flexible sigmoidoscopy (FS) scores of 0, on or off a stable dose of sulfasalazine
           or 5-ASA products for at least 6 weeks.

        -  Subjects must have had the diagnosis of ulcerative colitis established by prior
           colonoscopy or undergo colonoscopy in lieu of flexible sigmoidoscopy during the
           Screening Period.

        -  Subjects must have had treatment for a flare of ulcerative colitis, with symptomatic
           onset of remission occurring no more than 52 weeks from the Screening Period.

        -  Subjects may not have used corticosteroids, topical agents (corticosteroid or 5-ASA
           enemas, suppositories, foams), azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, or methotrexate within 6
           weeks of the Screening Period. Upon entry, sulfasalazine and 5-ASA containing products
           will be discontinued.

      Safety: Vital signs, ECGs, laboratory studies (including hematology, clinical chemistry, and
      urinalysis), and adverse events.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male or female subjects, 18 to 80 years of age, inclusive.

          -  Subjects with a prior diagnosis of ulcerative colitis, established by colonoscopy.

          -  Subjects currently in remission.

          -  Subjects who have undergone treatment for a flare of ulcerative colitis, with
             symptomatic onset of remission occurring no more than 52 weeks from the Screening
             Period.

          -  If subjects are taking sulfasalazine or 5-ASA products prior to entry, the dose must
             be stable for at least 6 weeks prior to the Screening Period. NOTE: During the study,
             use of these drugs will be discontinued.

          -  Subjects having undergone colonoscopy with pan-colonic surveillance biopsies negative
             for dysplasia within 1 year of the Screening Visit if at increased risk of colorectal
             cancer ( 8 year history of ulcerative colitis).

          -  Female or male subjects who are surgically sterilized or who are prepared to and
             agree to practice a double-barrier form of birth control from the Screening Period
             through 30 days (females) and 90 days (males), respectively, from the last dose of
             study medication. Females who are more than 12 months post-menopausal are also
             eligible to participate in the study.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Subjects who have active disease.

          -  Subjects who have any other clinically significant disease(s) or
             condition/procedure(s).

          -  Subjects who have had major gastrointestinal surgery including, but not limited to, a
             colostomy, an ileostomy or previous colonic surgery other than appendectomy.

          -  Subjects who have used corticosteroids or topical agents (corticosteroid or 5-ASA
             enemas, suppositories, foams) within 6 weeks of the Screening Period.

          -  Female subjects who are pregnant or lactating.

          -  Other exclusion criteria may apply.
      
