TITLE:
Efficacy and Safety of Olanzapine in Patients With Borderline Personality Disorder

CONDITION:
Borderline Personality Disorder

INTERVENTION:
Olanzapine

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of the protocol is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of olanzapine compared
      with placebo in patients with Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients must be of outpatient status at Visit 1 and through Visit 2

          -  Patients must be 18 through 65 years of age at Visit 1

          -  Patients must meet all of the DSM-IV-TR General Diagnostic Criteria for a Personality
             Disorder AND Patients must meet DSM-IV-TR diagnostic criteria for BPD as determined
             by the DIPD-IV, confirmed by a psychiatrist with training in the evaluation and
             assessment of BPD.

          -  The symptom severity as assessed by the total score of the ZAN-BPD, confirmed by a
             psychiatrist with training in the evaluation and assessment of BPD, must be greater
             than or equal to 9 at Visit 2.

          -  Female patients of childbearing potential must test negative for pregnancy and must
             be using medically accepted means of contraception throughout the study. Use of any
             oral or injectable contraception must be initiated prior to Visit 2.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Investigators, study site personnel directly affiliated with the study, or immediate
             family of investigator site personnel directly affiliated with the study. Immediate
             family is defined as a spouse, parent, child, or sibling, whether biological or
             legally adopted.

          -  Persons employed by Lilly (that is, employees, temporary contract workers, or
             designees responsible for the conduct of the study). Immediate family of Lilly
             employees may participate in Lilly-sponsored clinical trials, but are not permitted
             to participate at a Lilly facility. Immediate family is defined as a spouse, parent,
             child, or sibling, whether biological or legally adopted

          -  Have previously participated (have been randomized) or withdrawn from this study or
             any other Lilly sponsored study investigating olanzapine.

          -  Have had previous treatment with olanzapine unless, in the opinion of the
             investigator, the patient's previous treatment was inadequate in dose or duration to
             provide an accurate assessment of the therapy, or the effect of olanzapine was
             confounded by concomitant medication.

          -  Female patients who are either pregnant or nursing.
      
