TITLE:
Genetic Testing in Predicting Response to Paclitaxel in Women With Breast Cancer

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
paclitaxel

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Analyzing genes for changes before and after chemotherapy may help doctors
      predict a patient's response to treatment and help plan the most effective treatment.

      PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying how well genetic testing works in predicting
      response to paclitaxel in women who have unresected breast cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the feasibility of accruing women with unresected infiltrating carcinoma of
           the breast to a clinical trial involving serial breast biopsies and administration of
           neoadjuvant paclitaxel before formal assessment of axillary lymph node status.

        -  Determine a standard protocol template for gene microarray analysis, in terms of the
           timing and method of collecting tissue samples, before and after administration of
           neoadjuvant paclitaxel in these patients.

        -  Determine the safety and efficacy of tissue sampling in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Identify gene(s) or gene clusters that exhibit significant differences between
           responding and non-responding tumors before treatment with neoadjuvant paclitaxel in
           these patients.

        -  Identify gene(s) or gene clusters that exhibit changes in gene expression before and
           after the administration of neoadjuvant paclitaxel in these patients.

        -  Compare significant differences in gene expression between responding and
           non-responding tumors in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Develop, preliminarily, a statistical model utilizing individual genes and/or gene
           clusters that can best predict response to paclitaxel in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot, multicenter study.

      Patients undergo core needle breast biopsy within 14 days before starting neoadjuvant
      paclitaxel treatment. Patients receive neoadjuvant paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo core needle breast biopsy 48 hours after the first administration of
      paclitaxel, upon completion of course 1, and either upon completion of the last course (in
      patients with clinical or radiographic evidence of residual disease) or during definitive
      breast surgery. Biopsy samples are analyzed for gene expression by gene microarray analysis.

      Patients are followed for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion:

          -  Histologically confirmed infiltrating carcinoma of the breast

               -  Unresected disease

               -  High-risk (> 50% risk of relapse) disease, including any of the following
                  high-risk markers:

                    -  Estrogen receptor- and progesterone receptor- negative

                    -  Palpable axillary lymph nodes

                    -  Grade 3 histology

                    -  S phase fraction > 10%

                    -  Ki67 > 30%

          -  Disease that warrants combination therapy with doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and
             paclitaxel

          -  HER2/neu negative or positive

          -  Hormone receptor status:

               -  Not specified

        Menopausal status

          -  Known

        Performance status

          -  ECOG 0-2

          -  Absolute neutrophil count > 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count  100,000/mm^3

          -  Bilirubin  1. 5 times normal (except for patients with known Gilbert's disease)

          -  Creatinine  1.5 times normal

        Exclusion:

          -  uncontrolled congestive heart failure

          -  myocardial infarction within the past 6 months

          -  unstable angina

          -  uncontrolled hypertension

          -  pregnant or nursing

          -  serious bacterial, viral, or fungal infection requiring ongoing treatment

          -  severe peripheral neuropathy

          -  poor psychiatric risk

          -  history of any other known serious co-morbid medical or psychiatric condition

          -  prior cytotoxic therapy for breast cancer
      
