TITLE:
Pegaptanib Sodium Compared to Sham Injection in Patients With Recent Vision Loss Due to Macular Edema Secondary to Central Retinal Vein Occlusion (CRVO)

CONDITION:
Retinal Vein Occlusion

INTERVENTION:
pegaptanib sodium

SUMMARY:

      Eyetech Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Pfizer, Inc. are studying an investigational drug,
      MacugenTM, for the possible treatment of CRVO. An investigational drug is one that has not
      been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This investigational drug may
      slow the growth of abnormal blood vessels in the eye and may reduce tissue swelling in the
      eye.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the safety and efficacy of a Macugen injection to a
      pretend injection. In addition, the purpose of this study is to measure the action of the
      study drug in the body over a period of time and to check for the presence of the study drug
      in your blood (called pharmacokinetics or PK).

      This study will involve approximately 90 people. People who decide to participate will have
      an equal chance (1 in 3) to receive one of three study injections, two of which are Macugen
      and one of which is a pretend injection.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This study will consist of 3 phases: a screening phase which will last up to two weeks, a
      confirmation phase which will last one day, and a randomization phase (the patient will be
      assigned by chance to a study group in this phase) which will last approximately 52 weeks.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  CRVO must have occurred within the past 6 months and be associated with macular edema
             determined by OCT.

          -  Vision in the study eye corresponding to between approximately 20/50 to 20/400 and
             better than or equal to approximately 20/200 in the fellow eye.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Presence of signs of old branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO) or CRVO in the study
             eye or any other retinal vascular disease including diabetic retinopathy.

          -  Vitreous hemorrhage except breakthrough hemorrhage from intraretinal hemorrhage.

          -  Prior pan retinal photocoagulation (PRP) or sector scatter photocoagulation.
      
