TITLE:
Safety & Efficacy of Omeprazole Sodium Bicarbonate for the Prevention of Upper GI Bleeding in the Critically Ill

CONDITION:
Upper Gastrointestinal Bleeding

INTERVENTION:
Omeprazole sodium bicarbonate immediate release PWD/FS

SUMMARY:

      Critically ill patients are at an increased risk of having upper gastrointestinal (GI)
      bleeding due to stress related mucosal damage. Cimetidine, delivered continuously through
      intravenous infusion, is the only drug that the FDA has approved for the prevention of upper
      GI bleeding in critically ill patients. The present trial is intended to assess the safety
      and efficacy of an omeprazole sodium bicarbonate immediate-release suspension in this
      indication.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This trial will be a triple-blind, double-dummy, prospective, multicenter, randomized
      clinical trial comparing the effectiveness of OSB-IR to the effectiveness of intravenous
      cimetidine in preventing upper GI bleeding at risk for SRMD.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Patients will be included in the trial if they meet all of the following criteria:

          1. An adult or adolescent (greater than or equal to 16 years of age) male or
             non-pregnant female requiring mechanical ventilation for greater than or equal to 48
             hours.

          2. An anticipated ICU stay of greater than or equal to 72 hours.

          3. An Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE II) score of >11
             immediately before randomization.

          4. At least one other risk factor for upper GI bleeding due to stress-related mucosal
             damage in addition to mechanical ventilation. Acceptable "other" risk factors
             include:

               -  closed-head injury

               -  multiple trauma to head, chest, abdomen, solid organs, or limbs

               -  major surgical procedures (eg, mastectomy, pancreatectomy, cardiovascular
                  surgery) 24 hours previous to screening

               -  extensive burns (greater than or equal to 30% of the body surface area)

               -  acute renal failure (urine output <0.5 mL/kg of body weight/hr for one hour,
                  despite adequate fluid resuscitation)

               -  acid-base disorder (pH less than or equal to 7.3 or base deficit greater than or
                  equal to 5.0 mMol/L with a plasma lactate level >1.5 times the upper limit of
                  normal for the reporting laboratory)

               -  coagulopathy (a platelet count <50,000/mm3, an INR of >1.5 [i.e., prothrombin
                  time >1.5 times the control value], or a partial-thromboplastin time >2.0 times
                  the control value)

               -  marked jaundice (defined as plasma total bilirubin concentration of >51.3
                  micromol/L or >3 mg/dL)

               -  coma

               -  hypotension (either a systolic blood pressure <80 mm Hg for 2 hours or more or a
                  decrease of greater than or equal to 30 mm Hg in the systolic blood pressure)

               -  shock (arterial blood pressure less than or equal to 90 mm Hg or mean arterial
                  pressure less than or equal to 70 mm Hg for at least one hour despite adequate
                  fluid resuscitation, adequate intravascular volume status or the use of
                  vasopressors in an attempt to maintain a systolic blood pressure of greater than
                  or equal to 90 mm Hg or a mean arterial pressure of greater than or equal to 70
                  mm Hg)

               -  sepsis (defined as a positively cultured or clinically diagnosed infection with
                  at least three of the following: a body temperature of greater than or equal to
                  38 degrees C [greater than or equal to 100.4 degrees F] or less than or equal to
                  36 degrees C [less than or equal to 96.8 degrees F], a heart rate of greater
                  than or equal to 90 beats/min, tachypnea manifested by a respiratory rate of
                  greater than or equal to 20 breaths/min, or hyperventilation as indicated by a
                  PaCO2 of less than or equal to 32 mm Hg, and a white blood cell count of greater
                  than or equal to 12,000 cells/mm3 or less than or equal to 4,000 cells/mm3, or
                  the presence of >10% bands)

          5. An intact stomach and a nasogastric or an orogastric tube in place.

          6. An anticipation of no enteral feedings for the first two days of trial drug
             treatment.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Patients will be excluded from trial participation if they meet any of the following
        criteria:

          1. A status of "No Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)".

          2. If >48 hours has elapsed since the patient became eligible for the trial.

          3. Known history of vagotomy, pyloroplasty, gastroplasty, or any other gastric surgery.

          4. Known allergy to cimetidine or omeprazole.

          5. Active GI bleeding (including esophageal and gastric variceal bleeding, duodenal and
             gastric ulcers).

          6. Significant risk of swallowing blood (i.e., severe facial trauma, oral lacerations,
             hemoptysis).

          7. Enteral feedings for the first two days of trial drug treatment.

          8. Use of an investigational drug within 30 days prior to randomization.

          9. Critical/intensive care unit admission following esophageal, gastric, or duodenal
             surgery or trauma.

         10. Known history of upper gastrointestinal lesions that are likely to bleed (e.g.,
             esophageal or gastric varices, gastric polyps, tumors, etc. but excluding patients
             with gastric or duodenal ulcer disease).

         11. Any medical or surgical condition that precludes administration of an oral medication
             (i.e., OSB-IR).

         12. End stage liver disease.
      
