TITLE:
Treatment Outcome of Vascular Depression

CONDITION:
Depressive Disorder

INTERVENTION:
Sertraline

SUMMARY:

      This 12-week study will evaluate the effectiveness of sertraline (Zoloft) for treatment of
      depression associated with small vascular lesions in the brain (vascular depression).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Major late life depression (LLD) is an important health problem with a large and growing
      number of affected individuals. A significant subset of patients with LLD, particularly
      those with vascular depression, have abnormalities in certain parts of the brain that are
      evident on MRI scans and may be associated with poor acute and long-term response to
      antidepressant treatment. Studies have also indicated that LLD patients frequently have
      frontal lobe dysfunction. A longitudinal study with the antidepressant nortriptyline has
      demonstrated that frontal lobe dysfunction is associated with poor acute response and a
      greater risk for recurrence of LLD. However, it is not known if this finding applies to
      other antidepressants. This study will be the first clinical trial to simultaneously test
      the effects of specific brain and psychological factors on course of response, remission
      rate, and other measures of health outcomes in people with LLD.

      Participants are treated with sertraline for 12 weeks. During this period, participants
      undergo cognitive testing, MRI, electrocardiogram (EKG), and laboratory tests. Study visits
      occur every 2 weeks.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 60 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Ages 60+

          2. DSM-IV criteria for MDD

          3. Hamilton Depression Rating Scale score >18

          4. No MRI contraindications, e.g. foreign metallic implants, pacemaker

          5. Medication free of any psychotropic drug except as otherwise noted for set washout
             period (see D.2.1)

          6. Mini Mental Status Exam score <21

          7. No unstable medical disorders (requiring immediate medical attention)

          8. Ability to give informed consent

          9. English speaking

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Age <60

          2. Does not meet DSM-IV criteria for MDD

          3. Hamilton Depression Rating Scale score <18

          4. MRI contraindications e.g. foreign metallic implants, pacemaker

          5. Psychotropic drug use other than zolpidem and lorazepam, prn within 2 weeks of entry

          6. Mini Mental Status Exam score >21, or known primary neurological disorders including
             Dementia of the Alzheimer type, Parkinson's Disease, multiple sclerosis, seizure
             disorder.

          7. Unstable medical disorders, uncorrected hypothyroidism, or any condition that in the
             investigators opinion makes the patients unsuitable for a trial

          8. Cannot give informed consent

          9. Does not speak English
      
