TITLE:
Long-Term Safety Performance of Fexofenadine in Asthma

CONDITION:
Asthma

INTERVENTION:
Fexofenadine, Comparator = Montelukast

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to assess the long-term safety performance of fexofenadine
      compared to montelukast in subjects with asthma
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The incidence of respiratory allergy in the US has increased gradually over the past several
      years, and current estimates suggest that allergic rhinitis and bronchial asthma affect
      approximately 20% and 5% of the population, respectively. Rhinitis and asthma frequently
      coexist, and large-scale population surveys indicate that up to 38% of subjects with
      rhinitis have asthma, and up to 78% of subjects with asthma have chronic nasal symptoms.
      Safety concerns with the increased use of inhaled corticosteroids, the heterogeneity of the
      disease, and poor compliance with asthma medication regimens, point to the need for the
      development of safe and convenient oral therapies for asthma. Oral leukotriene receptor
      antagonists (eg montelukast) are the latest class of inflammation-modulating asthma drugs
      and appear to cause fewer long-term side effects than systemic corticosteroids and reduce
      the need for shorter-acting bronchodilator reliever medicines. However variability in
      response between patients has been observed and clinical experience with these agents is
      still limited.

      Histamine is an important chemical mediator of inflammation in asthma. The benefits of
      antihistamine treatment in patients with mild to moderate asthma have been well documented,
      however their clinical use has been previously limited due to the high doses required for
      efficacy and their associated side effects including sedation and cognitive impairment.
      Recent evidence indicates that in addition to H1-receptor antagonism, some of the newer
      nonsedating, non-impairing antihistamines appear to possess various anti-inflammatory
      properties at concentrations achieved at therapeutic dosages suggesting an additional
      benefit of these drugs in the management of allergic diseases and asthma. The purpose of
      this study is to assess the long-term safety performance of fexofenadine compared to
      montelukast in subjects with asthma.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 12 Years to 80 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion criteria:

          -  Males and non-pregnant, non-breastfeeding females 12 through 80 years of age

          -  FEV1 in the context of this study is greater than 40% and not less or equal to 87% of
             predicted values for subjects not currently taking ICS and greater than 40% and not
             less or equal to 95% for those subjects taking ICS at Visit 1 and/or Visit 2 (and no
             albuterol use within 6 hours prior to spirometry)

          -  Improvement in FEV1 of at least 12% of predicted value and at least 200ml within 15
             to 30 minutes of inhaling 2 puffs of albuterol 90mcg/actuation demonstrated at study
             entry OR documented during the previous 12 months at the study site.

          -  Use of a short-acting, beta-agonist inhaler to treat asthma symptoms on an average of
             at least 2 days per week during the previous 2 weeks (greater than or equal to 4 days
             total during the previous 2 weeks, excluding prophylactic use).

        Exclusion criteria:

          -  Otherwise healthy
      
