TITLE:
Depsipeptide in Treating Patients With Solid Tumors

CONDITION:
Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
romidepsin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of depsipeptide in treating patients who
      have solid tumors for which no standard therapy exists.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the toxic effects and the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of
      depsipeptide in patients with incurable solid tumors (per 3/29/00 notification, only
      patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma are being accrued). II. Determine antineoplastic
      activity of depsipeptide in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation, multicenter study. Patients receive depsipeptide IV over
      4 hours on days 1 and 5. Treatment continues every 21 days in the absences of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of
      depsipeptide. If 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity at a given dose level,
      escalation ceases and the maximum tolerated dose is defined as the previous dose level .

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 48 patients will be accrued for this study within 18-24
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed incurable solid tumor (per 3/29/00
        notification, only patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma are being accrued) No known
        standard therapy for the disease that is potentially curative or definitely capable of
        extending life expectancy No CNS metastases

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: ECOG 0-2 Life expectancy:
        Greater than 12 weeks Hematopoietic: WBC greater than 3,500/mm3 Platelet count greater
        than 100,000/mm3 PT/PTT no greater than 1.1 times upper limit of normal (ULN) Hepatic:
        Bilirubin less than 1.5 ULN AST less than 3 times ULN Renal: Creatinine less than 1.5
        times ULN Cardiovascular: Cardiogram must be performed within 1 month of protocol
        registration No class III/IV heart disease Ejection fraction of at least 45% by MUGA or
        Echo Other: HIV negative No recent weight loss of greater than 10% of average body weight
        Oral intake of at least 1,200 calories/day No uncontrolled infection Not pregnant or
        nursing Fertile patients must use effective contraception No serious concurrent illness
        such as seizure disorder, uncontrolled hypertension, or myelodysplastic syndrome

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: At least 4 weeks
        since prior chemotherapy (6 weeks for nitrosourea or mitomycin) No prior doxorubicin of a
        total dose greater than 360 mg/m2 Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: At least
        3 weeks since prior radiation therapy with depsipeptide No prior radiation to greater than
        25% of bone marrow Surgery: At least 21 days since prior major surgery
      
