TITLE:
Yoga: Effect on Attention in Aging & Multiple Sclerosis

CONDITION:
Multiple Sclerosis

INTERVENTION:
Yoga

SUMMARY:

      Changes in visual attention are common among elders and people with multiple sclerosis. The
      visual attention changes contribute to difficulty with day to day functioning including
      falls, driving and even finding one's keys on the kitchen counter as well as contributing to
      deficits in other cognitive domains. Yoga emphasizes the ability to focus attention and
      there is some evidence that the practice of yoga may improve one's cognitive abilities.
      Additionally, yoga practice may improve cognitive function through other non-specific means
      such as improved mood, decreased stress or declines in oxidative injury. We propose a
      randomized, controlled 6 month phase II trial of yoga in two separate cohorts: healthy
      elders and subjects with mild multiple sclerosis. We will determine if yoga intervention
      produces improvements on a broad attentional battery that especially emphasizes attentional
      control. To further understand the reported beneficial effect of yoga on its practitioners,
      we will also determine if there is a positive impact on measures directly related to yoga
      practice (flexibility and balance) as well as mood, quality of life and oxidative injury
      markers. The yoga intervention consists of a Hatha yoga class meeting twice per week. The
      class is taught by experienced yoga teachers who are supervised by a nationally known yoga
      instructor. There are two control groups. An exercise group will have a structured walking
      program prescribed by a certified Health and Fitness Instructor and Personal Trainer. The
      program will attempt to match the Hatha yoga class for metabolic demand. The second control
      group will be assigned to a 6 month waiting list. The outcome measures are assessed at
      baseline and after the 6 month period. The primary outcome measures are alertness
      (quantitative EEG and self-rated scale), ability to focus attention (Stroop) and ability to
      shift attention (extradimensional set shifting task). Secondary attention outcome measures
      include the ability to sustain attention (decrement in reaction time) and ability to divide
      attention (Useful Field of View). Other secondary outcome measures include flexibility,
      balance, mood, quality of life, fatigue (in MS cohort) and decreased markers of lipid,
      protein, and DNA oxidative injury.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 65 Years to 85 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with MS who are mildly impaired with an expanded disability status scale of
             0-4.0

          -  Healthy volunteers
      
