TITLE:
Capecitabine Combined With Cisplatin in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors

CONDITION:
Cancer

INTERVENTION:
capecitabine

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one chemotherapy drug may kill more tumor
      cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of capecitabine combined with cisplatin in
      treating patients who have locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors .
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the dose-limiting toxicity, maximum tolerated dose, and the recommended phase
           II dose of capecitabine and cisplatin in patients with locally advanced or metastatic
           cancer of the upper gastrointestinal tract (GI), head and neck, lung, breast, or
           carcinoma of unknown primary.

        -  Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Evaluate possible antitumor effectiveness of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the toxic effects of cisplatin and capecitabine at the recommended phase II
           dose in patients with cancer of the upper GI tract.

        -  Determine the overall survival, time to progression, and duration of response in
           patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of capecitabine.

      Patients receive oral capecitabine twice daily for 5, 10, or 14 days. Patients also receive
      cisplatin IV on day 1 of each course. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of capecitabine until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients
      experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). The recommended phase II dose is defined as the
      dose preceding the MTD, provided no more than 3 of 12 patients experience DLT at that dose.
      Twenty additional patients with cancer of the upper gastrointestinal tract receive treatment
      with cisplatin and capecitabine at the recommended phase II dose for at least 6 months in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 6 months and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20-50 patients will be accrued for this study within 1-3
      years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed metastatic or locally advanced inoperable carcinoma of the
             upper gastrointestinal tract, head and neck, lung, breast, or carcinoma of unknown
             primary

          -  Previously treated and/or resected primary tumors allowed

          -  Hormone receptor status:

               -  Not specified

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Sex:

          -  Not specified

        Menopausal status:

          -  Not specified

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 12 weeks

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin less than 2 mg/dL*

          -  AST less than 3 times upper limit of normal (ULN)*

          -  Alkaline phosphatase no greater than 3 times ULN* NOTE: * Unless related to tumor
             (e.g., cholangiocarcinoma or hepatic metastases)

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 mg/dL OR

          -  Creatinine clearance greater than 60 mL/min

          -  BUN no greater than 30 mg/dL* NOTE: * Unless related to tumor (e.g.,
             cholangiocarcinoma or hepatic metastases)

        Other:

          -  No other medical condition that could interfere with oral medication absorption

          -  No prior or concurrent malignancy except surgically cured carcinoma of the cervix or
             basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma skin cancer

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  HIV negative

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  At least 6 months since prior fluorouracil or cisplatin

          -  At least 3 weeks since other prior chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  At least 3 weeks since prior radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics
      
