TITLE:
Single-Dose Study of Black Cohosh and Red Clover

CONDITION:
Menopause

INTERVENTION:
Cimicifuga racemosa

SUMMARY:

      This Phase I study will assess the pharmacokinetics of two botanicals, Trifolium pratense
      (red clover) and Cimicifuga racemosa (black cohosh). Participants will receive a single dose
      of one botanical preparation. The observation period will be one week. Drug toxicity,
      absorption, distribution, metabolism and elimination data will be collected, and dosages to
      be utilized in a Phase II clinical trial will be determined.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This Phase I study will assess the pharmacokinetics of two botanicals, Trifolium pratense
      (red clover) and Cimicifuga racemosa (black cohosh). Participants will receive a single dose
      of one botanical preparation. The observation period will be one week. Drug toxicity,
      absorption, distribution, metabolism and elimination data will be collected, and dosages to
      be utilized in a Phase II clinical trial will be determined. The Phase II trial will examine
      the efficacies of red clover and black cohosh for the reduction of menopausal symptoms in
      healthy menopausal women. The study will be randomized, double-blinded, and
      placebo-controlled. Study duration will be one year.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 45 Years to 59 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Healthy menopausal women

          -  Average body weight

          -  Able to give informed consent

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Smoker

          -  Use of any prescription medicine within the last 2 months

          -  Obesity > 30% above ideal body weight

          -  Previous history of breast or reproductive cancer

          -  Alcohol abuse or consumption above 5 glasses of wine per week or equivalent

          -  Chronic disease such as diabetes or hypertension

          -  Concurrent non-dietary phytoestrogens or hormone use; Vegans (vegetarians who tend to
             consume greater than average dose of phytoestrogens)

          -  Concurrent participation in other clinical trial(s)

          -  Unavailable for followup
      
