TITLE:
Nonpharmacologic Analgesia for Invasive Procedures

CONDITION:
Pain

INTERVENTION:
Self-hypnotic relaxation

SUMMARY:

      Analgesics and sedatives administered to control distress from minimally invasive surgical
      procedures have limited effectiveness and serious side effects. Unabated distress not only
      interferes with smooth progression of the ongoing procedure, but can elicit adverse
      responses when patients need additional intervention. The long-term objective of this
      research is to provide a safe and practical behavioral method for reducing cognitive and
      physiologic distress associated with invasive procedures. Currently, this method should
      benefit at least 8 million patients annually in the US. Extrapolating the risk of
      intravenous conscious sedation to the number of invasive procedures performed annually, we
      predict that 47,000 patients will suffer serious cardiorespiratory complications and 2,600
      will die. These numbers do not include effects of the psychological damage inflicted by
      poorly managed procedure-related stress on patients' subsequent health behavior. This
      application sets out to pursue three aims: 1) Prospectively determine the impact of
      self-hypnotic relaxation on cognitive and physiologic distress during tumor embolizations;
      2) Prospectively determine the impact of self-hypnotic relaxation on distress in the
      postoperative period; 3) Determine the impact of intraprocedural self-hypnotic relaxation on
      distress during subsequent tumor embolization. We hypothesize that: 1) Self-hypnotic
      relaxation decreases cognitive and physiologic distress during tumor embolizations. 2)
      Self-hypnotic relaxation decreases cognitive and physiologic distress after tumor
      embolization when post-embolization ischemia is expected to induce painful stimuli and
      systemic distress. 3) The beneficial effect of self-hypnotic coping skills acquired during
      an invasive procedure carries over to the next invasive procedure. Upon completion, the
      efficacy and durability of procedural administration of nonpharmacologic analgesia will be
      known by a rigorous and practical assessment. The relative performance of self-hypnotic
      relaxation will be quantified compared to standard care and empathic controls in a
      well-characterized population of patients within the controlled and monitored environment of
      a busy interventional radiology practice. Results from this competing renewal will provide
      the next level of data needed for future study design to determine broad clinical utility in
      a multicenter randomized controlled trial.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 90 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients referred for transcatheter embolization for benign uterine fibroid tumors or
             malignant hepatic tumors.

          -  Patients referred for radiofrequency ablation of malignant hepatic or renal tumors

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Unable to give informed consent

          -  Impaired mental function, psychosis, severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
             intolerance towards midazolam or fentanyl

          -  Weigh < 55 kg

          -  Pregnant

          -  Unable to hear or understand English
      
