TITLE:
Oregon Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine in Neurological Disorders

CONDITION:
Neurological Disorders

INTERVENTION:
antioxidants

SUMMARY:

      The mission of the Oregon Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine in Neurological
      Disorders (ORCCAMIND) is to facilitate research and education on the effectiveness and
      mechanisms of action of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) therapies in the
      treatment of neurological disorders. The integration of conventional medicine and CAM
      communities is critical for the success of ORCCAMIND. Thus, ORCCAMIND is composed of six
      institutions: Oregon Health Sciences University; National College of Naturopathic Medicine;
      Western States Chiropractic College; Oregon College of Oriental Medicine; the Linus Pauling
      Institute at Oregon State University; and the Portland Veterans Affairs Medical Center.

      ORCCAMIND will initially focus on the use of CAM antioxidants and stress reduction as
      treatments for neurodegenerative and demyelinating diseases because many of these diseases
      have oxidative injury as a causative or contributory factor and several CAM approaches have
      direct or indirect anti-oxidant effects. Through the Career Development Program the
      Developmental Research Program and the activities of the Education and Information Core, we
      will also foster and promote research into other CAM approaches for neurologic diseases that
      extend beyond anti-oxidant therapies. ORCCAMIND will achieve its goals by carrying out 4
      Research Projects and maintaining 4 Core facilities that integrate the research strengths of
      conventional medicine and CAM practitioners and researchers. ORCCAMIND draws its strength
      from the multi-institutional support and the quality of all its investigators. The
      investigators join ORCCCAMIND with extensive experience with clinical trials, patient care,
      externally funded basic and clinical neuroscience research, and training programs, including
      federally-funded training grants. ORCCAMIND is a bold initiative that integrates basic and
      clinical research scientists, conventional neurologists and CAM practitioners. It will
      promote the exploration of new areas of CAM research and lead research on CAM therapies for
      neurological disorders.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      See brief summary
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 65 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  written informed consent
      
