TITLE:
Safety of RG2077 in Patients With Multiple Sclerosis

CONDITION:
Multiple Sclerosis

INTERVENTION:
RG2077 (CTLA4-IgG4m)

SUMMARY:

      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disorder. In this disease, the body's immune system
      attacks and destroys the cells that cover and protect nerves. This study will test the
      safety of a new drug called RG2077 that is designed to treat MS. The study will not
      determine whether RG2077 is effective in treating MS, only whether it is safe to use in
      patients with MS.

      Study hypothesis: RG2077 will arrest MS if administered early in the course of MS and
      decrease accumulation of lesions on MRI.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Effective treatment of autoimmune disorders is likely to arise not from improved
      immunosuppression, but from improved understanding of the normal mechanisms that generate
      and maintain self-tolerance. RG2077 may block a T cell costimulation pathway central to the
      pathophysiology of MS. A total of 20 patients with MS will be enrolled in this study. Each
      patient participates in the study for 4 months.

      The dose-escalation portion of this study evaluated the safety of a single infusion of
      RG2077 (CTLA4-IgG4m) in 16 patients with MS and is now complete. Patients who participated
      in the single infusion portion of the study were assigned to one of four groups. Each group
      received a different dose of RG2077. The second portion of the study will evaluate the
      safety of 4 doses of RG2077 in 4 additional patients. In the multiple infusion portion of
      the study, all patients will receive the same dose of RG2077. Patients will be monitored for
      possible side effects of RG2077.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

          -  Confirmed diagnosis of MS, defined as an MRI consistent with MS plus two separate
             clinical events, or one clinical event and MRI consistent with demyelination plus a
             second MRI demonstrating new lesions

          -  Have declined all FDA approved therapies for MS
      
