TITLE:
Helping HIV Infected Patients in South Africa Adhere to Drug Regimens

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Directly Observed Therapy

SUMMARY:

      Three or more anti-HIV drugs are taken in combination as part of a treatment regimen. These
      drug regimens must be closely followed in order to be successful. Having a support person
      watch a patient take his or her anti-HIV drugs each day may help a patient follow his or her
      regimen. This study will see if patient-chosen treatment supporters help patients take HIV
      medicines correctly and improve their health.

      Study hypothesis: The mean change in CD4 count at 12 and 24 months will be significantly
      higher in the directly observed therapy-highly active antiretroviral therapy (DOT-HAART) arm
      as compared to the self-administered arm.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      South Africa has one of the worst and fastest growing HIV epidemics in the world. Highly
      active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has been shown both at the individual and public
      health levels to reduce morbidity, mortality, and vertical and possibly horizontal HIV
      transmission. However, expenses, feasibility, long-term adherence, and effective delivery of
      HAART remain formidable barriers, particularly in developing nations. Recently,
      international initiatives have provided hope for widespread use of HAART at affordable cost
      in sub-Saharan Africa. Simplified, once-daily HAART regimens with directly observed therapy
      (DOT) may help to achieve high levels of treatment adherence, a key component for long-term
      viral suppression and treatment success. Peer advocates have been used to improve adherence
      with medical therapies in a variety of settings. This study will evaluate the effectiveness
      and feasibility of DOT using patient-nominated peer supervisors to improve adherence to
      HAART in HIV infected adults in South Africa.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to either Peer-DOT-HAART or self-administration of a
      once-daily combination of the Western Cape Province ART program medications for 24 months.
      Study measures will include CD4 cell count and HIV viral load, adherence questionnaires,
      genotypic HAART resistance testing, and incidence of new or recurrent opportunistic
      infections.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  HIV infected

          -  Viral load greater than 1000 copies/ml

          -  CD4 count of 200 cells/mm3 or less, or World Health Organization Stage 4 disease

          -  Living in the area of the study site

          -  Had a known address for more than 3 months

          -  Willing to nominate a treatment supervisor (a close family member, sexual partner,
             friend, or community volunteer) to observe daily ingestion of tablets

          -  Willing to disclose HIV status to a treatment supervisor and ready to commit to
             long-term antiretroviral therapy

          -  Acceptable methods of contraception

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnant
      
