TITLE:
Safety of a New Type of Treatment Called Gene Transfer for the Treatment of Severe Hemophilia B

CONDITION:
Hemophilia B

INTERVENTION:
Adeno-Associated Viral with Human Factor IX

SUMMARY:

      In this study a modified virus called adeno-associated virus (AAV) will be used to transfer
      a normal gene for human clotting factor IX into patients with severe hemophilia B (AAV human
      Factor IX vector). Gene therapy is a very new medical technique being used in a number of
      clinical studies for diseases such as cancer and cystic fibrosis. At this time, the U.S.
      Food and Drug Administration has approved no gene transfer products for commercial use. To
      date, 8 subjects have received AAV vector in the muscle for a hemophilia B trial by
      intramuscular injection, and, to date, 6 subjects have been treated with AAV vector in the
      current hemophilia B liver trial. Eleven cystic fibrosis subjects have received AAV vector
      into their nasal sinuses or lungs to date. In this study, AAV human Factor IX vector will be
      injected into the liver using a catheter inserted into a large blood vessel (called the
      proper hepatic artery or the right hepatic artery).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        -  Males with severe hemophilia B with Factor IX activity level < 1% of normal.

          -  Life expectancy of > 1 year.

          -  Age > 18 years old.

          -  Ability to give informed consent.

          -  Greater than twenty exposure days of treatment with Factor IX protein.

          -  No history or presence of an inhibitor to Factor IX protein.

          -  Subjects must be able to receive Factor IX protein on a home infusion protocol.

          -  Subjects must have a normal protime (PT).

          -  Hepatitis C infected subjects will be evaluated for liver fibrosis based on liver
             biopsy data graded on a scale of 04 (Poynard et. al., 1997). Subjects who are
             Hepatitis C antibody and RNA positive and have not had a liver biopsy within the last
             36 months will be required to have one.

          -  Subjects must have low AAV titer.
      
