TITLE:
Telbivudine Versus Lamivudine in Adults With Decompensated Chronic Hepatitis B and Evidence of Cirrhosis

CONDITION:
Hepatitis

INTERVENTION:
Telbivudine

SUMMARY:

      This research study was conducted to compare the safety and effectiveness of the
      investigational medication, LdT (Telbivudine) versus Lamivudine, a drug currently approved
      by the US, European and Asian Health Authorities for the treatment of Hepatitis B infection.
      The results for patients taking LdT will be compared to results for patients taking
      lamivudine.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Multicenter, multinational, randomized, double-blind study designed to compare the safety
      and efficacy of telbivudine (600 mg/day) versus lamivudine (100 mg/day) for 104 weeks in
      adults with decompensated chronic hepatitis B and evidence of cirrhosis. Patients were
      pre-stratified by screening Child-Turcotte-Pugh score (CTP score < 9 or  9) and ALT level
      (within normal limits (WNL) or > 1.0 x ULN) to help assure similar degrees of hepatic
      insufficiency and liver inflammation on both treatment arms. After 104 weeks of treatment,
      participants were followed-up with for an additional 16 weeks.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to 70 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Documented decompensated chronic hepatitis B defined by all of the following: 1.
             Clinical history compatible with decompensated chronic hepatitis B related cirrhosis;
             2. Child-Turcotte-Pugh score > 7 points.

          -  Evidence of hepatic cirrhosis or portal hypertension.

        Other protocol-defined inclusion criteria may apply.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patient is pregnant or breastfeeding.

          -  Patient is coinfected with hepatitis C virus (HCV), hepatitis D virus (HDV), or Human
             immunodeficiency virus (HIV).

          -  Patient previously received lamivudine, adefovir, or an investigational
             anti-hepatitis B virus (HBV) nucleoside or nucleotide analog at any time

          -  Patient has received interferon or other immunomodulatory treatment for HBV infection
             in the 12 months before Screening for this study.

        Other protocol-defined exclusion criteria may apply.
      
