TITLE:
Zoledronate and BMS-275291 in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer

CONDITION:
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate

INTERVENTION:
rebimastat

SUMMARY:

      Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining zoledronate with BMS-275291 in
      treating patients who have prostate cancer that has not responded to previous hormone
      therapy. Zoledronate may prevent bone loss and stop the growth of tumor cells in bone.
      BMS-275291 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for cancer
      cell growth. Combining zoledronate with BMS-275291 may kill more tumor cells.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the confirmed response rate of hormone refractory prostate cancer patients
      treated with Zometa with BMS-275291.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the toxicity profile associated with this treatment in this patient
      population.

      II. To evaluate the overall and progression-free survival associated with this treatment
      regimen.

      III. To explore changes markers for bone turnover, fPYR, fDPYR, and serum samples for
      cross-linked N-telopeptides from baseline.

      IV. To assess changes in bone tumor metabolism after treatment using PET scans. V. To assess
      changes in MMP-1, MMP-9, VEGF and bFGF from baseline after treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      prior chemotherapy (yes vs no) and participating center.

      ARM I: Patients receive zoledronate IV over at least 15 minutes on day 1 and oral BMS-275291
      daily on days 1-28.

      ARM II (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL AS OF 10/10/2003): Patients receive zoledronate as in Arm I.

      In both arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months until disease progression and then every 6 months for
      up to 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed (adeno)carcinoma of the prostate refractory
             to hormone therapy

          -  Metastatic bone disease, as documented by bone scan and confirmed by x-rays, CT scan
             or MRI scan

               -  Note: Patients may also have measurable disease in the lymph nodes
                  (retroperitoneal, pelvic or inguinal only), prostate and /or prostatic bed;
                  measurable disease is defined as lesions that can be accurately measured in at
                  least one dimension (longest diameter to be recorded) as >= 20 mm =< 21 days
                  prior to registration

          -  PSA progression defined as two consecutive increases in PSA value over the previous
             reference value; the first increase of PSA should occur no earlier than one (1) week
             after the reference measurement; all patients need to demonstrate continued PSA
             elevation with an increasing PSA four weeks after the required cessation of their
             antiandrogen treatment; the required cessation period is 4 weeks for flutamide,
             nilutamide, and Megace-based treatment, and 8 weeks for bicalutamide-based treatment

          -  One of the following:

               -  Continuing primary androgen suppression (LHRH agonist)

               -  Orchiectomy

          -  WBC >= 2000/mm^3

          -  Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) >= 1500/mm^3

          -  PLT >= 100,000/mm^3

          -  Hgb >= 9.0 g/dL

          -  Total bilirubin =< institutional upper normal limits (UNL)

          -  AST =< 1.5 x UNL

          -  Serum creatinine =< 1.5 x UNL

          -  PSA >= 5 ng/mL

          -  Serum testosterone < 50 ng/dL =< 3 months prior to registration

          -  Estimated life expectancy of >= 6 months

          -  ECOG Performance Status (PS) 0, 1, or 2

          -  Capable of understanding the investigational nature, potential risks and benefits of
             the study and able to provide valid informed consent

          -  If sexually active, willing to use an accepted and effective method of contraception
             consistently for the duration of study participation

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Any of the following:

               -  > 2 prior chemotherapy regimen

               -  > 2 non-hormonal treatments for metastatic disease (including biologics, gene
                  therapy, angiogenesis inhibitors, etc., but excluding external radiotherapy)

               -  Prior therapy with a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor (MMPI)

               -  Immunotherapy =< 4 weeks prior to study entry

               -  Biologic therapy =< 4 weeks prior to study entry

               -  Radiation therapy =< 4 weeks prior to study entry

               -  Concomitant hormonal treatment (except LHRH)

               -  Prior use of systemic radiopharmaceuticals such as samarium and strontium

               -  PC-Spes =< 4 weeks prior to study entry

               -  Failure to fully recover from adverse effects of prior therapies regardless of
                  interval since last treatment

               -  Other concurrent chemotherapy, immunotherapy, or radiotherapy directed at the
                  cancer

               -  Other therapy or supportive care that is considered investigational

          -  Known CNS metastases

          -  Known visceral metastases (pulmonary, liver, kidney, splenic lesions); patients with
             retroperitoneal, pelvic or inguinal lymph node metastases and/or disease in the
             prostate (or prostatic bed) will not be excluded

          -  Uncontrolled intercurrent illness including, but not limited to:

               -  Ongoing or active infection

               -  Symptomatic congestive heart failure

               -  Unstable angina pectoris, cardiac arrhythmia

               -  Psychiatric illness/social situations that would limit compliance with study
                  requirements

          -  HIV-positive patients receiving combination anti-retroviral therapy

          -  Prior malignancy except for adequately treated basal cell or squamous cell skin
             cancer, adequately treated noninvasive carcinomas, or other cancer from which the
             patient has been disease free for >= 5 years
      
