TITLE:
Rituximab, Chemotherapy, and Filgrastim in Treating Patients With Burkitt's Lymphoma or Burkitt's Leukemia

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies such as rituximab can locate tumor cells and either kill
      them or deliver tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Drugs used in
      chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or
      die. Colony-stimulating factors such as filgrastim may increase the numbers of immune cells
      found in bone marrow or peripheral blood and may help a person's immune system recover from
      the side effects of chemotherapy. Combining chemotherapy with rituximab and filgrastim may
      kill more cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining rituximab with chemotherapy
      and filgrastim in treating patients who have Burkitt's lymphoma or Burkitt's leukemia.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the complete response rate in patients with previously untreated Burkitt's
           lymphoma or Burkitt's leukemia treated with rituximab and high-intensity chemotherapy
           with filgrastim (G-CSF) support.

        -  Determine the progression-free and overall survival of patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the feasibility and toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to disease (leukemia
      vs lymphoma).

        -  Course 1: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 5-15 minutes daily on days 1-5 and
           oral prednisone on days 1-7. Allopurinol PO will be given on days 1-14.

        -  Courses 2, 4, and 6: Patients receive ifosfamide IV over 1 hour daily on days 1-5;
           vincristine IV over 10 minutes and methotrexate IV over 24 hours on day 1; leucovorin
           calcium IV over 15 minutes every 6 hours on day 2; cytarabine IV over 2 hours on days 4
           and 5 and etoposide IV over 1 hour daily on days 4 and 5; oral dexamethasone daily on
           days 1-5; and methotrexate and cytarabine intrathecally (IT) on day 1. During course 2,
           patients receive rituximab IV over 1-4 hours on days 8, 10, and 12. During courses 4
           and 6, patients receive rituximab IV over 1 hour on day 8. Patients also receive
           filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) beginning on day 7 and continuing until blood
           counts recover.

        -  Courses 3, 5, and 7: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 5-15 minutes daily on
           days 1-5; vincristine IV over 10 minutes and methotrexate IV over 24 hours on day 1;
           leucovorin calcium IV every 6 hours on day 2; doxorubicin IV daily on days 4 and 5;
           oral dexamethasone daily on days 1-5; methotrexate and cytarabine IT on day 1; and
           rituximab IV over 1 hour on day 8. Patients also receive G-CSF as in courses 2, 4, and
           6. After course 3, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100 patients (50 per stratum) will be accrued for this study
      within 3 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically, cytogenetically, or immunophenotypically confirmed Burkitt's leukemia
             or Burkitt's or Burkitt-like lymphoma

               -  L3 morphology surface IgG expression

               -  Cytogenetic evidence for t(8;14), t(8;22), or t(2;8)

          -  Previously untreated disease except hydroxyurea for leukocytosis

          -  CNS involvement allowed

          -  Patients with Burkitt's leukemia or Burkitt's lymphoma with bone marrow involvement
             must also be enrolled on CALGB-8461

          -  Patients with Burkitt's leukemia must also be enrolled on CALGB-9665

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  16 and over

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 times ULN

        Other:

          -  HIV negative

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  No concurrent interleukin-11

        Chemotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No other concurrent chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  No concurrent hormonal therapy except for non-disease-related conditions (e.g.,
             insulin for diabetes)

          -  No concurrent steroids except for adrenal failure

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No concurrent palliative radiotherapy except whole-brain irradiation for documented
             CNS disease
      
