TITLE:
St. Johns Wort Vs. Placebo in Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder.

CONDITION:
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder

INTERVENTION:
St. Johns Wort

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of St. Johns Wort as compared
      to placebo (an inactive substance) in the treatment of outpatients with obsessive compulsive
      disorder.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The objective of the proposed study is to assess the efficacy of the herbal St. Johns Wort
      (SJW) in the treatment of symptoms of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). The approach is
      to conduct a 12-week, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, parallel group pilot
      trial with 30 subjects in each of two arms. The Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale
      (Y-BOCS) will be the primary measure for evaluating OCD. An intention-to-treat analysis will
      be done to compare the two arms.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion criteria

          -  Female patients: at least 2 years post-menopausal, surgically sterile, or practicing
             a medically acceptable method of contraception.

          -  Meets DSM-IV criteria for obsessive compulsive disorder

        Exclusion criteria

          -  Primary diagnosis of major depression, dysthymia, panic disorder, social phobia,
             schizophrenia, schizo-affective disorder, bipolar disorder, or PTSD

          -  Substance abuse or dependence in the past 6 months

          -  Vascular dementia or primary degenerative dementia of the Alzheimers type

          -  Treatment with MAOIs, TCAs, SSRIs, venlafaxine, nefazodone, remeron, citalopram, or
             bupropion within 14 days of first visit.

          -  Fluoxetine within 5 weeks of first visit.

          -  Failure to respond to at least two adequate antidepressant trials for obsessive
             compulsive disorder

          -  Investigational drugs within 30 days of baseline

          -  Known allergy or hypersensitivity to St. Johns Wort

          -  Currently in behavior therapy for obsessive compulsive disorder

        ALL INQUIRIES WILL UNDERGO A PHONE SCREENING TO DETERMINE WHETHER THEY MEET ELIGIBLITY
        REQUIREMENTS.
      
