TITLE:
Insulin-like Growth Factor-1 in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Trial

CONDITION:
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis

INTERVENTION:
Insulin like growth factor, type 1

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this multicenter study is to determine if insulin-like growth factor-1
      (IGF-I) slows the progressive weakness in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients.
      Study participants will be followed for 2 years once enrolled. They will receive either
      placebo or the active IGF-I. Examinations will take place at approximately 6-month
      intervals.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The objective of this trial was to determine whether IGF-1 (MyotrophinTM) slows progression
      of weakness in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Three hundred thirty patients with ALS
      from 20 medical centers participated in this double blind, placebo-controlled two-year
      study. Half the patients received IGF-1 and the other half received placebo. The drug will
      be administered twice a day.

      ALS is a neurodegenerative disorder that causes progressive muscle weakness and loss of
      motor neurons. IGF-1 is a neurotrophic factor essential for normal development of the
      nervous system and shows protection of motor neurons in animal models and cell culture
      systems. It is thought to block cell death pathways and promote muscle re-innervation and
      axonal growth and regeneration.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients entering this study:

          -  Are between the ages of 18-80 years old.

          -  Legal residents of the United States or Canada.

          -  Have a history of a chronic onset of a progressive motor weakness of less than 24
             months duration.

          -  Fulfill El Escorial criteria of probable or definite ALS.

          -  If female, are surgically sterile, two years postmenopausal, or if of child-bearing
             potential, must be using a medically acceptable method of birth control and agree to
             continue use of this method for the duration of the study. Acceptable methods include
             a barrier method with spermicide, oral contraceptives (normal doses are acceptable;
             low dose oral contraceptives or contraceptive implants must be used with a barrier
             method), intrauterine device (IUD), or abstinence. Have a negative pregnancy test.

          -  Are able to comply with protocol requirements.

          -  Can provide written informed consent.

          -  Have a manual muscle testing score of less than 8.

          -  Have a forced vital capacity by pulmonary function testing *60% predicted.

        Exclusion Criteria:

        Patients entering this study will not:

          -  Have any of the following conditions:renal disease (Creatine > 2.0) or other active
             systemic disease

          -  Have any clinically significant abnormalities on the prestudy laboratory evaluation,
             physical examination, ECG, chest x-ray or ophthalmologic exam.

          -  Have any clinically significant medical condition (e.g., within six months of
             baseline, had myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, and/or congestive heart
             failure) that, in the opinion of the investigator, would compromise the safety of
             patient.

          -  Have Type I or Type II diabetes.

          -  Have a history of cancer including melanoma with the exception of localized skin
             cancers (with no evidence of metastasis, significant invasion, or re-occurrence
             within three years of baseline) and carcinoma in-situ of the cervix (women only).

          -  Have used an investigational drug within 30 days of baseline visit.

          -  Have had a tracheostomy.

          -  Have a Beck's Depression Inventory score * 12.

          -  Have legal residency outside of the United States or Canada.

          -  Be pregnant or breast-feeding.
      
