TITLE:
Understanding the Pathogenesis and Treatment of Childhood Onset Dermatomyositis

CONDITION:
Dermatomyositis

INTERVENTION:
Prednisone

SUMMARY:

      Juvenile dermatomyositis (JDMS) is one of the most serious of the childhood rheumatic
      diseases. The theory behind this trial is that early introduction of etanercept or
      methotrexate will prove to be effective in the treatment of JDMS. Pretreatment muscle
      biopsies, we believe there will be abnormalities in the blood vessels that will be
      correlated with worse physical strength and daily functional ability. The long-term goal is
      to improve the treatment of this serious childhood onset rheumatic disease and to better
      understand the pathogenic mechanism for the development of the vasculopathy (disorder of
      blood vessels) of JDMS. Identification of the specific mechanism of the vasculopathy may
      allow for the rational introduction of biologic treatments focused on vascular growth.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The mortality of JDMS is 3-39% with over 40% of patients demonstrating long-term disability.
      Current first line therapy is high-dose corticosteroids with the attendant significant
      drug-related toxicity. Over 30% of JDMS patients fail to respond adequately to steroids and
      require additional immunosuppression, none of which have been tested in prospective,
      randomized, controlled trials. The unique occlusive vasculopathy in JDMS is critical in the
      pathogenesis and predictive of prognosis but poorly understood. Elevated levels of tumor
      necrosis factor (TNF) alpha have been shown to be present in JDMS and are associated with a
      more severe and chronic course.

      Seventy-five children with definite JDMS will be enrolled in a 24-month prospective,
      randomized, multicentered trial comparing 3 treatments: oral prednisone (P), combination of
      oral prednisone and methotrexate (P/MTX), and combination of oral prednisone and etanercept
      (P/E). Primary response measures will be muscle strength and mean duration of steroid
      therapy. Secondary response variables are disability in daily function and height and weight
      growth velocity (steroid toxicity measures). The combination of P/E will be tested and
      compared to both P alone and the combination of P/MTX after 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months of
      treatment. In addition, the combination of P/MTX will be compared to P alone after 3, 6, 12,
      18, and 24 months of treatment. In pretreatment muscle biopsies, proangiogenic factors (such
      as vascular endothelial cell growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor), angiostatic
      factors (such as angiostatin and endostatin), and vascular morphology (vessel number, width,
      length and area) will be quantified and tested for ability to predict muscle strength and
      functional ability 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months later.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 4 Years to 16 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion criteria at the time of enrollment:

          -  Definite or probable diagnosis of JDMS by the criteria of Bohan and Peter

          -  No prior systemic steroid treatment for JDMS

          -  If able to become pregnant (females) or impregnate (males) and are sexually active,
             then must have negative serum pregnancy test at baseline and be utilizing effective
             form of birth control

          -  Patient and/or parent or legal guardian must be willing to sign consent and assent
             forms

        Exclusion criteria at the time of enrollment:

          -  History of chronic or recurrent infections sufficient to preclude the use of
             etanercept

          -  Prior treatment with specific TNF-blocking agents

          -  Demonstration of cutaneous or gastrointestinal (GI) ulceration at the time of
             diagnosis

          -  JDMS-related pulmonary disease at time of diagnosis (interstitial lung disease or
             aspiration pneumonia confirmed by radiograph)

          -  JDMS-related cardiomyopathy (echocardiogram confirmation)

          -  Any uncontrolled, clinically significant pre-existent systemic disease (hepatic,
             renal, neurological, endocrine, cardiac, gastrointestinal, or hematologic disease)
             within 24 weeks of start of study

          -  Known HIV, hepatitis B surface antigen not related to vaccination, or hepatitis C
             antibody positivity

          -  Pregnant or nursing female

          -  Any of the following laboratory abnormalities at baseline: platelet count <
             100,000/cmm, total white cell count of < 3000 cells/cmm, neutrophils < 1000
             cells/cmm, serum bilirubin > 2 times upper limit of normal, estimated creatinine
             clearance of < 90 mL/min/1.73 M2 BSA estimated by formula for males age 2 to <13
             (0.55 X ht in cms/serum creatinine), age 13-18 (0.7 X ht in cms/serum creatinine) and
             females age 2-18 (0.55 X ht in cms/serum creatinine)

          -  Received live virus vaccination within 3 months prior to study entry
             (contraindication for MTX or etanercept therapy)

          -  Past or current substance abuse or psychiatric history that would interfere with
             ability to give informed consent or comply with study requirements or physician
             instructions
      
