TITLE:
Intravenous Azithromycin Plus Intravenous Ceftriaxone Followed by Oral Azithromycin With Intravenous Levofloxacin Followed by Oral Levofloxacin for the Treatment of Moderate to Severely Ill Hospitalized Patients With Community Acquired Pneumonia

CONDITION:
Community-Acquired Pneumonia (CAP)

INTERVENTION:
IV azithromycin

SUMMARY:

      A trial in which patients over 18 years of age who are hospitalized with community acquired
      pneumonia and are otherwise eligible for entry into the study are randomly selected to
      receive one of two treatment regimens. After written informed consent is obtained, patients
      will receive one of the following two treatment regimens: 1) intravenous administration of
      azithromycin and ceftriaxone followed by azithromycin tablets, or 2) intravenous
      administration of levofloxacin followed by levofloxacin tablets. At least four study visits
      are normally conducted up to approximately one month after starting therapy. The objective
      of this study is to compare the safety and efficacy of the two treatment regimens.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patient must be 18 years or older.

          -  Patient must be hospitalized and require intravenous therapy for treatment of
             pneumonia.

          -  Patient must have pneumonia as documented by relevant signs and symptoms and a
             positive chest X-ray.

          -  Patients cannot have certain underlying diseases or conditions as defined in the
             study protocol.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnant women, nursing mothers, or women of childbearing potential not practicing
             adequate contraception.

          -  Known or suspected hypersensitivity or intolerance to any quinolone, penicillin,
             cephalosporin, or macrolide antibiotic.

          -  Treatment with any systemic antibiotic for 24 hours or longer within 72 hours prior
             to the baseline visit.

          -  Subjects with clinically significant renal dysfunction.

          -  Subjects with clinically significant hepatic dysfunction.

          -  Subjects with clinically significant cardiovascular disorders.
      
