TITLE:
Fludarabine With or Without Cyclophosphamide in Treating Patients With Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
cyclophosphamide

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more cancer cells. It is
      not yet known whether combining cyclophosphamide with fludarabine is more effective than
      fludarabine alone in treating chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to study the effectiveness of fludarabine with or
      without cyclophosphamide in treating patients who have chronic lymphocytic leukemia that has
      not been treated previously.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of fludarabine with or without cyclophosphamide in terms of
           complete remission rate and overall survival in patients with previously untreated B
           cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).

        -  Compare the toxicities of these 2 regimens in this patient population.

        -  Determine whether the expression of proteins specifically implicated in the regulation
           of DNA damage induced apoptosis of lymphoid cells (i.e., p53; mdm2; GST; Bcl-2; Mcl-1;
           Bax; p27; and caspase-3) correlates with response to chemotherapy in these patients.

        -  Determine whether there is a relationship between clinical response or resistance and
           differential expression of genes in the CLL cells either at initiation of therapy or
           following relapse and progression.

        -  Correlate mutations in immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region genes with clinical
           response or resistance in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to stage
      of disease (O-II vs III-IV). Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive fludarabine as in arm I plus cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour
           on day 1.

      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months until disease
      progression.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 280 patients will be accrued for this study over 2 to 2.5
      years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) of any stage as defined by the
             following:

               -  Peripheral blood absolute lymphocyte count greater than 5,000/mm^3 within 14
                  days prior to study

               -  Lymphocytes must be small to moderate size with no more than 55% prolymphocytes,
                  atypical lymphocytes, or lymphoblasts morphologically

               -  Phenotypically characterized as B-CLL

          -  Must have one of the following characteristics indicating need for chemotherapy:

               -  Progressive marrow failure (hemoglobin less than 10 g/dL and/or platelet count
                  less than 100,000/mm^3)

               -  Progressive lymphocytosis with an increase of more than 50% over a 2 month
                  period or anticipated doubling time of less than 6 months

               -  Massive (i.e., greater than 6 cm below left costal margin) or progressive
                  splenomegaly

               -  Massive nodes or clusters (i.e., greater than 10 cm in longest diameter) or
                  progressive adenopathy

               -  At least 10% weight loss within 6 months of study

               -  Extreme fatigue

               -  Fevers greater than 100.5 degrees F for 2 weeks without evidence of infection

               -  Night sweats without evidence of infection

          -  No autoimmune anemia or autoimmune thrombocytopenia

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 2 mg/dL unless secondary to tumor

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2.0 mg/dL

          -  Creatinine clearance at least 40 mL/min if creatinine is greater than 1.5 mg/dL

        Other:

          -  No other prior or concurrent malignancy within the past 2 years except basal cell
             carcinoma of the skin or carcinoma in situ of the cervix

          -  No active infection requiring oral or intravenous antibiotics

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior cytotoxic chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  No prior steroid treatment for CLL

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified
      
