TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Children With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
cytarabine

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy in treating
      children who have relapsed or refractory acute lymphocytic leukemia.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate the complete response rate to combination fludarabine, idarubicin,
      and cytarabine in children with relapsed or refractory acute lymphocytic leukemia. II.
      Evaluate the safety and tolerance of this treatment in these patients. III. Evaluate the
      time to progression, disease free survival, and overall survival of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open label, multicenter study. Patients receive idarubicin IV over 1
      hour on days 1-3. Fludarabine IV is administered over 30 minutes on days 1-5. Cytarabine IV
      is administered over 4 hours on days 1-5. If partial response is obtained, patients receive
      a second course of treatment. Patients receive a consolidation course in the absence of
      disease progression and unacceptable toxicity. Idarubicin IV is administered over 1 hour on
      days 1 and 2. Fludarabine IV is administered over 30 minutes, followed by cytarabine IV over
      4 hours on days 1-5. Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years or until death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 24-45 patients will be accrued for this study within 27
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 17 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Cytologically diagnosed relapsed or refractory acute lymphocytic
        leukemia previously treated with front line therapy FAB L1 or L2 Bone marrow relapse
        either isolated or associated with CNS or testicular relapse Bone marrow blast cells
        greater than 10% No isolated CNS relapse

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: Under 18 Performance status: WHO 0-2 Play-performance scale
        at least 60% Life expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic:
        Bilirubin less than 2.5 times normal Renal: Creatinine less than 2.5 times normal
        Cardiovascular: No symptoms of cardiac failure No decline of ejection fraction by more
        than 20% of the lower limit of normal Shortening fraction at least 25% Other: No
        psychological, familial, sociological or geographical condition that would hamper
        compliance No uncontrolled infection

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: At least 6 months since prior autologous bone marrow
        transplantation No prior allogeneic bone marrow transplantation No concurrent treatment
        with other experimental drug
      
