TITLE:
Antineoplaston Therapy in Treating Patients With Advanced Head and Neck Cancer

CONDITION:
Head and Neck Cancer

INTERVENTION:
antineoplaston A10

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Antineoplastons are naturally-occurring substances that may also be made in the
      laboratory. Antineoplastons may inhibit the growth of cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: This phase II trial studies the effectiveness of antineoplaston therapy in treating
      patients who have advanced head and neck cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Provide treatment with antineoplastons A10 and AS2-1 to patients with incurable cancer
           of the head and neck.

        -  Describe response to, tolerance to, and side effects of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label study.

      Patients receive gradually escalating doses of antineoplaston A10 and antineoplaston AS2-1
      by intravenous injection six times per day until the maximum tolerated dose is reached.

      Treatment continues for at least 2 months in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. After 2 months, patients with stable or responding disease may
      continue treatment. Patients achieving complete response (CR) continue treatment for 8
      months beyond CR.

      Tumors are measured every 2 months for 1 year and then every 3 months for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 20-40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed cancer of the head and neck that is unlikely to respond to
             existing therapy and for which no curative therapy exists

               -  Metastatic disease OR incurable with surgery or radiation

          -  Measurable disease by CT scan or MRI

               -  Tumor must be at least 2 cm for the lymph nodes located in the head, neck,
                  axillary, inguinal or femoral areas and at least 0.5 cm for other areas

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  16 and over

        Performance status:

          -  Karnofsky 60-100%

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 2 months

        Hematopoietic:

          -  WBC at least 2,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 50,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  No hepatic insufficiency

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 2.5 mg/dL

          -  SGOT and SGPT no greater than 2.5 mg/dL

        Renal:

          -  No renal insufficiency

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2.5 mg/dL

          -  No renal conditions that contraindicate high dosages of sodium

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No chronic heart failure

          -  No uncontrolled hypertension

          -  No history of congestive heart failure

          -  No other cardiovascular conditions that contraindicate high dosages of sodium

        Pulmonary:

          -  No serious lung disease (e.g., severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease)

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception during and for 4 weeks after study
             participation

          -  No other serious medical or psychiatric conditions

          -  No active infection

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior immunotherapy and recovered

          -  No concurrent immunomodulatory agents

        Chemotherapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy (6 weeks for nitrosoureas) and recovered

          -  No concurrent antineoplastic therapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Concurrent corticosteroids allowed

        Radiotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 8 weeks since prior radiotherapy (unless multiple tumors) and recovered

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Other:

          -  Prior cytodifferentiating agents allowed
      
