TITLE:
Low Fat Diet to Prevent Disease Progression in Patients With Skin Cancer

CONDITION:
Non-Melanomatous Skin Cancer

INTERVENTION:
preventative dietary intervention

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: A low-fat, balanced diet may prevent disease progression in patients with
      nonmelanomatous skin cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase II trial to study the effectiveness of a low-fat, balanced diet to
      prevent disease progression in patients with nonmelanomatous skin cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine whether intervention with a low-fat balanced diet will prolong the
      disease-free survival time in patients presenting with nonmelanomatous skin cancer and
      having a history of not more than two previous skin cancers. II. Assess the effect of this
      intervention on numbers of tumors during the two year follow-up period. III. Determine the
      incidence of new skin cancer in the control, nonintervention population.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized into the Dietary Intervention
      or Nonintervention groups. The control group has initial and follow up assessment of eating
      habits. The dietary intervention group also has initial and follow up assessment of eating
      habits that have been changed to reduce fat intake to one-half of the amount in the average
      American diet with a subsequent increase of carbohydrates to compensate for total caloric
      intake. Both groups have assessment of clinical status of skin cancer at 4 month intervals
      for 24 months. Patients are followed for two years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 175 patients will be accrued in the first 3 years of this
      study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 15 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed basal cell carcinoma or squamous cell
        carcinoma of the skin No more than two prior skin carcinomas Must not have genetic
        predisposition to skin cancer (i.e., xeroderma pigmentosum, basal cell nevous syndrome)

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 15 and over Race: Caucasian Performance status: Not
        specified Life expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic: Not
        specified Renal: Not specified Other: No therapeutic diet that requires fat intake greater
        than 20% of total calories No untreated systemic malignancy No history of arsenic
        ingestion Not diabetic

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: Not specified
        Endocrine therapy: No concurrent systemic steroids Radiotherapy: No prior x-ray therapy
        for acne No prior/concurrent ultraviolet light (PUVA or UVB) therapy for psoriasis
        Surgery: Not specified Other: No concurrent megavitamin or mineral supplementation At
        least 5 years since treatment with antimetabolites, folic acid inhibitors, alkalating
        agents, etc.
      
