TITLE:
Radiation Therapy Compared With Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Stage I Testicular Cancer

CONDITION:
Testicular Germ Cell Tumor

INTERVENTION:
carboplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor
      cells. It is not yet known whether chemotherapy is more effective than radiation therapy for
      testicular cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of carboplatin with that of
      radiation therapy in treating patients who have stage I testicular cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare relapse rates in patients with stage I testicular seminoma treated
      with adjuvant radiotherapy vs carboplatin. II. Compare quality of life of patients before
      and after treatment with these regimens. III. Compare the acute and intermediate (1-2 year)
      side effects of these regimens in these patients. IV. Determine the incidence of late side
      effects (such as bowel dysfunction) of treatment and second malignancies in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Arm
      I: Patients receive a single dose of carboplatin IV. Arm II: Patients undergo radiotherapy
      once daily, 5 days a week. Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months
      for 1 year, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 800 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 16 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed stage I seminomatous germ cell tumor of
        the testis categorized as either "classical" or "anaplastic"

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 16 and over Performance status: Not specified Hematopoietic:
        Not specified Hepatic: Not specified Renal: Creatinine less than 1.4 mg/dL Other: No
        concurrent or previously treated malignancy except successfully treated nonmelanoma skin
        cancer No medical condition or other factor that would preclude study

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: Not specified
        Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: Not specified Surgery: No more than 8 weeks
        since prior orchidectomy Prior inguino-pelvic or scrotal surgery allowed Must be treated
        with "dog-leg" field if randomized to radiotherapy If prior vasectomy, choice of fields is
        at the discretion of the clinician
      
