TITLE:
S9809, Ciprofloxacin Compared With Cephalexin in Treating Patients With Bladder Cancer

CONDITION:
Bladder Cancer

INTERVENTION:
cephalexin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Chemoprevention therapy is the use of certain drugs to try to prevent the
      development or recurrence of cancer. It is not yet known whether ciprofloxacin is more
      effective than cephalexin in preventing cancer recurrence in patients who are undergoing
      surgery to treat bladder cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin with that
      of cephalexin in preventing recurrence of cancer in patients who are undergoing surgery for
      bladder cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine whether ciprofloxacin improves the recurrence-free survival of
      patients with superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder treated with a
      transurethral tumor resection.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      disease status (first occurrence vs recurrent disease). Patients are randomized to receive
      either oral ciprofloxacin or oral cephalexin 2 times a day for 3 days starting the night
      before resection. Patients who are allergic to penicillin or a cephalosporin receive oral
      co-trimoxazole 2 times a day for 3 days. All patients undergo complete resection of all
      bladder tumors. Patients are followed every 3 months for the first 2 years, every 6 months
      for the next 2 years, and at the end of the fifth year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 900 patients will be accrued for this study over 3 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Stage Ta (any grade) transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder
        on basis of cystoscopy Recurrent disease no greater than T1 Must not be at high risk for
        upper tract (ureter or renal pelvic) transitional cell cancers

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: SWOG 0-2 Life expectancy:
        Not specified Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic: Not specified Renal: Not specified
        Other: Not pregnant or nursing Fertile patients must use effective contraception No other
        prior malignancy in the past 5 years except adequately treated basal cell or squamous cell
        skin cancer, carcinoma in situ of the cervix, or adequately treated stage I or II cancer
        in complete remission No allergies to fluoroquinolones If allergic to penicillin or
        cephalosporin, must be able to take co-trimoxazole

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: At least 28 days
        since prior intravesical therapy and recovered Endocrine therapy: Not specified
        Radiotherapy: At least 28 days since prior radiotherapy and recovered Surgery: Not
        specified Other: At least 3 months prior to cystoscopy since prior fluoroquinolones No
        concurrent fluoroquinolones No concurrent hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis No
        concurrent probenecid or theophylline No concurrent antacids containing aluminum,
        magnesium or calcium, products containing iron or zinc, caffeine, cyclosporine, or
        warfarin
      
