TITLE:
Vinblastine and Methotrexate in Treating Children With Desmoid Tumors

CONDITION:
Desmoid Tumor

INTERVENTION:
methotrexate

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of chemotherapy with vinblastine and
      methotrexate in treating children who have desmoid tumors that are recurrent or untreatable
      with surgery or radiation therapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Estimate the efficacy and toxicity of vinblastine and methotrexate for newly
      diagnosed or recurrent desmoid tumors in children who are not good candidates for treatment
      with surgery or radiation therapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive vinblastine and methotrexate IV weekly for 26 weeks, then every 2
      weeks for an additional 26 weeks. Treatment continues for a maximum of 1 year in the absence
      of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. Patients with a complete response receive
      an additional 8 doses of chemotherapy. Patients are followed every 6 months for 4 years and
      then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 13-25 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 21 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically proven, untreated, primary desmoid tumor
        (aggressive fibromatosis) for which surgery and/or radiation therapy is not thought to be
        feasible (prior attempted surgical resection allowed if gross residual disease remains) No
        other fibroblastic lesions or other fibromatoses allowed Recurrent desmoid tumor not
        previously treated with vinca alkaloids or methotrexate and no chemotherapy since
        recurrence Measurable disease by MRI

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: Under 19 at time of diagnosis Performance status: Not
        specified Life expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: Hemoglobin normal for age WBC
        normal for age Platelet count normal for age Hepatic: Bilirubin less than 1.5 times upper
        limit of normal (ULN) for age SGOT less than 1.5 times ULN for age Renal: Creatinine less
        than 1.5 times ULN for age

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: See Disease Characteristics
      
