TITLE:
Chemotherapy and Monoclonal Antibody Therapy in Treating Patients With B-cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma That Has Relapsed Following Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation

CONDITION:
Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
rituximab

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies can locate cancer cells and either kill them or deliver
      cancer-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy
      use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining
      monoclonal antibody therapy with chemotherapy may kill more cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of the monoclonal antibody rituximab plus
      chemotherapy with vinorelbine in treating patients with B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma that
      has relapsed following autologous peripheral stem cell transplantation.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the tolerability and toxicity of rituximab combined with vinorelbine in
           patients with relapsed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma following autologous peripheral blood
           stem cell transplantation.

        -  Assess the response rate and duration of response to this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive rituximab IV weekly on weeks 1-4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 and vinorelbine
      IV on weeks 2-4, 6-8, and 10-12. Patients who achieve partial response may continue on
      vinorelbine from week 14 until disease progression.

      Patients are followed until disease progression.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 18-25 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with B-cell Lymphoma, relapsing after high dose chemotherapy and autologous
             stem cell transplantation or allogeneneic stem cell or bone marrow transplant

          -  Age > 18 years old

          -  Adequate hematologic function, as manifested by ANC > 1000/mm3 and platelet count >
             40,000/mm3

          -  PS WHO: < 3

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with serum creatinine > 2 mg%, transaminases (ALT, AST) > 3 times upper
             normal value, direct bilirubin > 2 mg%, unless they result from tumor involvement

          -  Pregnant or lactating females

          -  History of myelodysplastic syndrome

          -  Uncontrolled CNS disease

          -  Active serious infection

          -  History of refractoriness to vinorelbine. However, prior treatment with rituxan is
             not an exclusion (synergy may still occur)
      
