TITLE:
Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
gonadotrophin releasing hormone

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. It is not yet
      known whether standard radiation therapy is more effective than high-dose radiation therapy
      in treating patients with prostate cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of standard radiation
      therapy with that of high-dose radiation therapy in treating patients with stage II or stage
      III prostate cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare local tumor control in patients with stage II or III prostate cancer treated
           with neoadjuvant androgen deprivation therapy with standard vs high-dose conformal
           radiotherapy.

        -  Compare the incidence of biochemical failure (prostate-specific antigen (PSA) greater
           than 2 ng/mL at 6 or more months after initiation of radiotherapy and PSA rising from
           nadir level by at least 50%), development of metastases, and survival in patients
           treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the acute and late radiation-induced side effects of these regimens in this
           patient population.

        -  Compare aspects of quality of life, health economics, models of normal tissue, and
           tumor control in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      prostate-specific antigen, T stage, and Gleason score. Patients are randomized to one of two
      treatment arms.

      All patients receive neoadjuvant androgen deprivation with luteinizing hormone-releasing
      hormone agonists every 4 weeks beginning 3-6 months before initiation of radiotherapy and
      continuing until completion of radiotherapy.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo standard conformal radiotherapy for 6.5 weeks.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo high-dose conformal radiotherapy for 7.5 weeks. Quality of
           life is assessed at baseline, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 800 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed prostate cancer

               -  T1b-T3a, N0, M0 (stage II or III)

          -  Prostate-specific antigen at least 50 ng/mL

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  Not specified

        Performance status:

          -  WHO 0-1

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  WBC greater than 4,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count greater than 100,000/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin greater than 11 g/dL

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No significant past medical history that would preclude radical radiotherapy

          -  No condition that would preclude standard radiotherapy

          -  No hip prosthesis

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  No prior androgen deprivation therapy

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No prior pelvic radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  No prior radical prostatectomy
      
