TITLE:
Vaccination Therapy in Treating Patients With Limited-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Lung Cancer

INTERVENTION:
BCG vaccine

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Vaccines may help the body build an immune response to kill tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of vaccination with
      monoclonal antibody BEC2 and BCG with that of no further therapy in treating patients who
      have limited-stage small cell lung cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the impact of adjuvant monoclonal antibody BEC2 and BCG on survival
      of patients with limited stage small cell lung cancer. II. Determine the safety of this
      regimen in these patients. III. Determine progression-free survival and quality of life of
      these patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      center, Karnofsky performance status (60-70% vs 80-100%), and response to first-line
      combined modality treatment (complete vs partial). Within 3-7 weeks after completion of
      prior induction chemoradiotherapy, responding patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms. Arm I: Patients receive best supportive care and are observed until disease
      progression is documented. Arm II: Patients receive adjuvant monoclonal antibody BEC2 and
      BCG intradermally on day 1 of weeks 0, 2, 4, 6, and 10. Treatment consists of 5 vaccinations
      over a period of 10 to 12 weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease
      progression. Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at weeks 6, 12, and 24, and then every
      6 months thereafter. Patients are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 500 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically or cytologically proven limited stage small cell
        lung cancer (SCLC) Must have completed adequate first-line combined modality treatment
        comprising at least 4-6 courses of a 2-drug chemotherapy regimen and chest radiotherapy No
        evidence of disease progression or relapse Disease response (complete or partial) after
        treatment

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: Karnofsky 60-100% Life
        expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: WBC greater that 3,000/mm3 Platelet count greater
        than 100,000/mm3 Hepatic: AST less than 1.5 times upper limit of normal Hepatitis B
        negative Renal: Not specified Cardiovascular: Adequate cardiac function Other: HIV
        negative Not pregnant or nursing Fertile patients must use effective contraception No
        prior malignancy within 5 years except adequately treated nonmelanomatous skin cancer or
        carcinoma in situ of the cervix No history of tuberculosis No grade 3 local skin toxicity
        reaction (ulceration) to 5 IU or greater of PPD test No active infections requiring
        systemic antibiotics, antiviral, or antifungal treatments No serious unstable chronic
        illnesses No psychological, familial, sociological, or geographical condition that would
        preclude study

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: No prior therapy with proteins of murine
        origin At least one month since prior immunotherapy No other concurrent immunotherapy
        Chemotherapy: See Disease Characteristics No concurrent chemotherapy Endocrine therapy: No
        concurrent chronic use of systemic corticosteroids Radiotherapy: See Disease
        Characteristics No concurrent radiotherapy including prophylactic cranial irradiation No
        prior spleen radiotherapy Surgery: No prior surgery for SCLC No prior splenectomy Other:
        No prior second-line therapy for SCLC At least one month since prior investigational
        agents No concurrent chronic use of systemic antihistamines or nonsteroidal
        anti-inflammatory drugs No concurrent immunosuppressive therapy
      
