TITLE:
Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation Plus Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Multiple Myeloma

CONDITION:
Multiple Myeloma and Plasma Cell Neoplasm

INTERVENTION:
carmustine

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining chemotherapy with peripheral stem cell
      transplantation may allow the doctor to give higher doses of chemotherapy drugs and kill
      more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of peripheral stem cell transplantation
      plus combination chemotherapy in treating patients who have multiple myeloma that has been
      treated for longer than 12 months.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate the complete and partial response in multiple myeloma patients
      receiving peripheral blood stem cells supported by gemcitabine and high dose carmustine and
      melphalan followed by consolidation therapy with gemcitabine plus
      cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone/etoposide/cisplatin (DCEP) and
      dexamethasone/paclitaxel/cisplatin. II. Evaluate the incidence of early death in comparison
      with historical data in this patient population. III. Evaluate the feasibility of
      chemotherapy with gemcitabine plus DCEP and dexamethasone/paclitaxel/cisplatin following
      autotransplantation in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 100 minutes on day -5 and again 6 hours after
      administration of carmustine IV over 2 hours on day -2, followed by melphalan IV over 20
      minutes on day -1. Patients receive intravenous CD34 peripheral blood stem cells on day 0.
      At 3 months and 9 months, patients with adequate hematologic counts receive cyclophosphamide
      IV, oral dexamethasone, etoposide IV, and cisplatin IV for 4 days. On day 3 of continuous
      infusions, gemcitabine is given over 100 minutes. At 6 and 12 months after autotransplant,
      patients receive oral dexamethasone on days 1-4, paclitaxel IV over 6 hours on day 2, and
      cisplatin IV over 24 hours on day 3. Patients are followed every 6 weeks to 3 months until
      death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 24-63 patients will be accrued within 2.5 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically proven multiple myeloma with greater than 12
        months of prior therapy Bone marrow plasmacytosis at least 30% or protein criteria present
        No obvious myelodysplastic changes in the bone marrow No CNS disease

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 to 70 Performance status: SWOG 0-2 (3-4 acceptable if
        based solely on bone pain) Life expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: CD34+ at least
        4,000/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 mg/dL SGOT or SGPT no greater than 4
        times upper limit of normal No active or chronic hepatitis or liver cirrhosis Renal:
        Creatinine no greater than 3.0 mg/dL Cardiovascular: LVEF greater than 50% Pulmonary: FEV1
        or FVC at least 50% of predicted DLCO at least 50% of predicted Patients unable to
        complete pulmonary function tests must have a CT scan of the chest and acceptable arterial
        blood gases of PO2 greater than 70 Other: Not pregnant or nursing Negative pregnancy test
        Fertile patients must use effective contraception HIV negative No active infection
        requiring IV antibiotics

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: At least 4 weeks
        since prior chemotherapy Endocrine therapy: Prior steroid therapy allowed Radiotherapy: At
        least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy Surgery: Not specified
      
