TITLE:
Diagnostic Study of Patients With Stage I Testicular Cancer

CONDITION:
Testicular Germ Cell Tumor

INTERVENTION:
immunohistochemistry staining method

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Diagnostic procedures may improve a doctor's ability to predict the recurrence of
      testicular cancer.

      PURPOSE: Diagnostic trial to detect the risk of recurrent disease in patients who have stage
      I testicular cancer and who have undergone orchiectomy within the previous 12 weeks.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Use histopathological and immunohistological analysis of the primary testis tumor along
           with quantitative radiographic assessment to identify a subset of patients with
           clinical stage I nonseminomatous germ cell tumor of the testis who have a very low risk
           of metastasis.

        -  Compare these findings with other predictive models of risk of metastasis after
           orchiectomy in this group of patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients undergo primary retroperitoneal lymph node dissection (RPLND) or active
      surveillance as management of their disease. The choice of treatment is determined by the
      physician and the patient. Patients with pathologically positive resected lymph nodes may
      undergo treatment (observation or adjuvant chemotherapy) at investigator's discretion.

      All patients are tested by quantitative radiology and blood markers (HCG and AFP) at
      baseline and then at various times after surgery to identify pathologic stage II disease.
      The timing of these studies depends on the stage of disease and/or type of disease
      management.

      Patients who undergo RPLND, have stage I or II disease, and do not receive adjuvant therapy
      (radiation or chemotherapy) are followed monthly during year 1, every 2 months during year
      2, every 6 months during years 3-5, and annually thereafter.

      Patients who undergo RPLND, have stage II disease, and receive adjuvant therapy are followed
      every 2 months during year 1, every 4 months during year 2, every 6 months during years 3-5,
      and annually thereafter.

      Patients who do not undergo RPLND are followed monthly during year 1, every other month
      during year 2, every 6 months during years 3-5, and annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 315 patients will be accrued for this study within 3 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 15 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Clinical stage I nonseminomatous germ cell tumor of the testis

          -  Must have had a radical inguinal orchiectomy with or without retroperitoneal lymph
             node dissection within prior 12 weeks

               -  AFP and HCG normal or decreasing after orchiectomy at a rate consistent with
                  known half lives

               -  Pathology blocks and radiologic studies available

          -  No metastatic disease on physical exam or chest or abdominal/pelvic CT

          -  No pure seminoma (unless associated with elevated AFP at diagnosis)

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  15 and over

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No prior malignancy including prior primary testicular cancer

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics
      
