TITLE:
Methotrexate With or Without Cyclophosphamide in Treating Patients With Lymphocytic Leukemia

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
Cyclophosphamide

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of methotrexate with or without
      cyclophosphamide in treating patients who have lymphocytic leukemia with neutropenia or
      anemia.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      LGL leukemia is characterized by clonal expansion of cytotoxic T cells. Prominent clinical
      features include neutropenia, anemia, and rheumatoid arthritis. The terminal effector memory
      phenotype (CD3+/CD8+/CD57+/CD45RA+/CD62L-) of leukemic LGL suggest a pivotal chronic antigen
      driven immune response. LGL survival is then promoted by PDGF and IL-15, resulting in global
      dysregulation of apoptosis and resistance to normal pathways of activation-induced death.
      These pathogenic features explain why treatment of LGL leukemia is based on
      immunosuppression therapy. However, no standard therapy has been established due to the
      absence of large prospective trials.

      Oral low dose MTX has been shown to be efficacious in the treatment of neutropenia. However,
      response to MTX is slow, requiring several months for the neutrophil count to increase above
      500/mm3. Also, complete clinical remission may not be achieved until after one year of MTX
      therapy. Oral Cy has been the primary drug used for the treatment of severe
      transfusion-dependent anemia. Beneficial clinical effects are seen despite this treatment
      having no apparent effect on the abnormal LGL clone. Normal hematocrits are maintained after
      cessation of Cy and these results contrast the effects seen with MTX, in which clinical
      remissions are often associated with the disappearance of the clone.

      This phase II trial undertaken by the Eastern Cooperative Group (ECOG) was initiated to
      investigate the mechanism of treatment response in patients with LGL leukemia, who need
      treatment for anemia or neutropenia.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion:

          -  Phenotypic studies from peripheral blood showing CD3+, CD57+ cells greater than
             400/mm3 or CD8+ cells greater than 650/mm3 within eight weeks prior to registration

          -  Evidence for clonal T-cell receptor gene rearrangement within one year prior to
             registration

          -  At least one of the following: Severe neutropenia less than 500/mm3, neutropenia
             associated with recurrent infections, symptomatic anemia, or transfusion-dependent
             anemia

          -  Bilirubin  2.0 mg/dl, SGOT(AST)  1.5 times normal, and Creatinine  2.0 mg/dl
             within 4 weeks prior to registration

          -  ECOG performance status of 0-2

          -  At least 18 years of age

          -  Written informed consent

        Exclusion:

          -  Prior therapy with oral MTX or oral Cy

          -  Previous or concurrent malignancies except inactive non-melanoma skin cancer, in situ
             carcinoma of the cervix, or other cancer if the patient has been disease free for
             over 5 years

          -  Pregnant or breast-feeding for female patients

          -  Serious medical illness, other than that treated by the study, which would limit
             survival to less than 2 years, or psychiatric condition which would prevent informed
             consent

        Note: to be eligible for step 2 of this study, patients were required to have no response
        after at least 4 months of methotrexate treatment.
      
