TITLE:
Lymph Node Removal in Treating Patients With Stage I or Stage II Non-small Cell Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Lung Cancer

INTERVENTION:
conventional surgery

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Surgical removal of all lymph nodes in the chest may kill cancer cells that have
      spread from tumors in the lung. It is not yet known whether complete removal of all lymph
      nodes in the chest is more effective than removal of selected lymph nodes in treating
      patients who have stage I or stage II non-small cell lung cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of complete removal of all
      lymph nodes in the chest with that of selected removal of lymph nodes during lung cancer
      surgery in treating patients who have stage I or stage II non-small cell lung cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare whether a complete mediastinal lymph node dissection versus mediastinal lymph
           node sampling improves overall survival of patients with N0 or non-hilar N1 non-small
           cell lung cancer undergoing resection.

        -  Compare these two methods with reference to identification of occult mediastinal lymph
           node involvement.

        -  Compare the effect of these two methods on operative time and duration of postoperative
           complications, including chest tube drainage and length of hospitalization for these
           patients.

        -  Compare the effect of these two methods on local recurrence free survival and local
           regional recurrence free survival of these patients.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

        A patient will be eligible for inclusion in this study only if ALL of the following
        criteria apply:

        Pre-operative:

          1. Patient must be 18 years of age.

          2. Patient must have an ECOG/Zubrod performance status of  3.

          3. Patient must have tissue diagnosis of a clinically resectable T1 or T2, N0 or
             non-hilar N1, M0 NSCLC (squamous cell carcinoma, large cell carcinoma or
             adenocarcinoma including bronchoalveolar carcinoma) established prior to
             randomization. NOTE: A patient without a pre-operative tissue diagnosis, but with
             clinically suspected NSCLC that fits the above criteria is eligible provided the
             tissue diagnosis is confirmed intraoperatively.

          4. Patient must have pre-operative imaging procedure, CT scan of the chest and upper
             abdomen to include liver and adrenal glands to determine eligibility, within 60 days
             of the date of the pulmonary resection.

          5. Patient that has not had a mediastinoscopy should have no mediastinal adenopathy on
             the CT of the chest defined as no lymph node > 1 cm in the shortest axis.

          6. Patient is a candidate for a complete resection of the carcinoma via
             pneumonectomy,lobectomy, bilobectomy, or anatomic segmentectomy with or without
             sleeve resection,as noted in the surgical plan.

          7. Patient, or patient's legally acceptable representative, must provide a signed and
             dated Z0030-specific written informed consent prior to registration and any
             study-related procedures.

          8. If patient is a survivor of a prior cancer, the following criteria are met:

               1. Patient has undergone potentially curative therapy for all prior malignancies,

               2. No evidence of any prior malignancies for at least 5 years with no evidence of
                  recurrence (except for effectively treated basal cell or squamous carcinoma of
                  the skin, carcinoma in-situ of the cervix that has been effectively treated by
                  surgery alone, or lobular carcinoma in-situ of the ipsilateral or contralateral
                  breast treated by surgery alone),

               3. Patient is deemed by their treating physician to be at low risk for recurrence
                  from prior malignancies.

        Intra-operative:

          1. Patient with right-sided lesions must have at least nodal stations #2R, 4R, 7 and 10
             R examined. If the nodes are found, they must be sampled and proven negative by
             frozen section.

          2. Patient with left-sided lesions must have at least nodal stations #5, 6, 7 and 10L
             examined. If the nodes are found, they must be sampled and proven negative by frozen
             section.

          3. Any other suspicious mediastinal or hilar nodes must be sampled and proven negative
             by frozen section. Levels 2, 4 and 7 need not be re-sampled if they were sampled at a
             mediastinoscopy done within 60 days of thehoracotomy.

        Exclusion Criteria:

        A patient will NOT be eligible for inclusion in this study if ANY of the following
        criteria apply:

          1. Patient has N2 disease determined at pre-operative mediastinoscopy or on sampling.

          2. Patient has T3 or T4 tumor.

          3. Patient is having only a wedge resection performed for treatment.

          4. Patient has received prior chemotherapy or radiotherapy for this cancer.
      
