TITLE:
Amifostine Plus Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Advanced, Unresectable Head and Neck Cancer

CONDITION:
Drug/Agent Toxicity by Tissue/Organ

INTERVENTION:
amifostine trihydrate

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Radiation therapy uses x-rays to damage tumor cells. Drugs,
      such as amifostine, may protect normal cells from the side effects of chemotherapy and
      radiation therapy.

      PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of amifostine plus cisplatin,
      paclitaxel, and radiation therapy in treating patients who have advanced unresectable head
      and neck cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Assess the efficacy and role of amifostine as a cytoprotection agent with
      concurrent chemoradiotherapy in advanced, previously irradiated or metastatic head and neck
      cancer. II. Determine the toxicity and response to cisplatin, paclitaxel and radiation
      therapy in these patients. III. Determine the toxicity of amifostine in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open label study. Patients receive paclitaxel by continuous infusion on
      days 0-3. Amifostine IV is administered over 5 minutes on days 1-5. Radiation therapy is
      administered once daily on days 1-5. Cisplatin IV is administered on day 5. Patients receive
      no treatment on days 6-13. Treatment is repeated every 2 weeks for up to 7 courses in the
      absence of disease progression and unacceptable toxicity. Patients are followed monthly
      during the first year, every 2 months during the second year, then every 3 months
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: This study will accrue 16-46 patients.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically or cytologically documented metastatic or
        previously irradiated recurrent locoregional squamous cell or mucoepidermoid carcinoma of
        the head and neck Unresectable disease

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: ECOG 0-2 OR Karnofsky
        70-100% Life expectancy: Greater than 4 months Hematopoietic: WBC at least 3000/mm3
        Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3 Granulocyte count at least 1500/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin
        no greater than 2.5 times normal SGOT and SGPT no greater than 2.5 times upper limit of
        normal Renal: Creatinine no greater than 1.5 mg/dL Creatinine clearance at least 60 mL/min
        Other: No other significant infection No other medical or psychiatric illness Not pregnant
        or nursing Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: At least 1 month
        since prior chemotherapy Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: At least 3 months
        since prior radiotherapy (patients with recurrent disease) to head and neck region
        Surgery: Not speciified Other: At least 24 hours since antihypertensive medication
      
