TITLE:
Troglitazone in Treating Patients With Liposarcoma

CONDITION:
Sarcoma

INTERVENTION:
troglitazone

SUMMARY:

      Troglitazone may help liposarcoma cells develop into normal cells. This was a single arm,
      open-label study with a two-stage design to evaluate troglitazone in patients with
      liposarcoma stratified by histologic subtype.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the clinical activity of troglitazone in patients with malignant liposarcoma
      stratified by histologic subtype.

      II. To perform correlative imaging, biological, and biochemical testing of patients in order
      to define the degree to which in vivo terminal differentiation may be promoted by this
      therapeutic intervention.

      III. To evaluate the tolerance and safety of troglitazone in this patient population.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL:

      Initially, 14 patients of each of the 5 histologic subtypes of liposarcoma will be accrued.
      If 1 or more patients show evidence of biological response, an additional 16 patients of
      each subtype will be accrued for a total of 30 patients per subtype. If 4 or more of 30
      patients achieve biological response then troglitazone will be deemed promising in that
      histologic subtype.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 120 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically proven liposarcoma that is incurable by standard
        surgery Measurable or evaluable disease required No active CNS involvement or
        leptomeningeal disease

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: ECOG 0-2 Life expectancy: At
        least 12 weeks Hematopoietic: Absolute neutrophil count at least 1500/mm3 Platelet count
        at least 100,000/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than 2.0 mg/dL SGOT less than 5 times
        upper normal limit Renal: Creatinine no greater than 2.0 mg/dL Cardiovascular: No poorly
        controlled atrial arrhythmias, angina pectoris, or myocardial infarction within past 6
        months No symptomatic congestive heart failure, percutaneous transluminal coronary
        angioplasty, or coronary artery bypass graft within past 3 months Other: Not pregnant or
        nursing Fertile patients must use effective contraception No known active retroviral
        disease

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Recovered from toxic effects of all prior therapy No concurrent
        cytotoxic therapy Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: Prior chemotherapy allowed
        Endocrine therapy: No concurrent hormonal therapy Radiotherapy: Prior radiation therapy
        for metastatic disease allowed No radiotherapy to sole site of measurable disease within
        past 6 months Surgery: Not specified
      
