TITLE:
Surgery With or Without Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed or Recurrent Bladder Cancer

CONDITION:
Bladder Cancer

INTERVENTION:
valrubicin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Transurethral resection is a less invasive type of surgery for bladder cancer and
      may have fewer side effects and improve recovery. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different
      ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. It is not yet known
      whether transurethral resection plus AD 32 is more effective than transurethral resection
      alone for bladder cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of transurethral resection
      surgery followed by AD 32 with that of transurethral resection alone in treating patients
      who have newly diagnosed or recurrent bladder cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Assess the efficacy of adjuvant AD 32 following complete transurethral
      resection versus transurethral resection alone in patients with newly diagnosed or recurrent
      superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. II. Assess the toxicity of AD 32 in
      these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open label, randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to
      receive surgery with AD 32 or surgery alone. Arm I: Patients undergo surgery to remove
      bladder tumors. AD 32 is administered by catheter into the bladder within 2-24 hours after
      surgery. Patients must hold the AD 32 liquid in the bladder for 90 minutes. Arm II: Patients
      undergo only surgery to remove bladder tumors. Patients with T1 or Tis disease may receive
      BCG therapy once weekly for 6 weeks, followed by 6 weeks of rest. Patients are followed
      every 3 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: This study will accrue approximately 300 patients.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically diagnosed stage 0 (Ta), stage I, or recurrent
        superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder Must have at least 2 papillary
        appearing bladder tumors by cystoscopic examination Patients with recurrent disease must
        have no history of Tis tumor

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: SWOG 0-2 Life expectancy:
        Not specified Hematopoietic: WBC greater than 4000/mm3 Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3
        Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than 2 times upper limit of normal (ULN) SGOT no greater
        than 2 times ULN Renal: Creatinine no greater than 2 times ULN Other: Not pregnant or
        nursing Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: No concurrent biological response modifiers
        for bladder cancer Chemotherapy: No prior or concurrent chemotherapy for bladder cancer No
        prior AD 32 therapy for bladder cancer Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: No
        prior or concurrent radiotherapy Surgery: At least 9 months since any complete
        transurethral resection of the bladder
      
