TITLE:
Vinorelbine Plus Paclitaxel in Treating Patients With Metastatic Prostate Cancer That Is Refractory to Hormone Therapy

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
paclitaxel

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of vinorelbine plus paclitaxel in
      treating patients with metastatic prostate cancer that is refractory to hormone therapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the clinical benefit response (including improvement in quality of
      life) of vinorelbine and paclitaxel in patients with metastatic hormone-refractory prostate
      cancer. II. Correlate PSA response with clinical benefit response in these patients. III.
      Determine the objective response rate and duration of remission in patients with measurable
      disease treated with this regimen. IV. Further assess the toxicity of this combination in a
      cohort of prostate cancer patients. V. Examine the survival characteristics of these
      patients undergoing this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This an open label study. Patients receive vinorelbine IV over 6-10 minutes on days
      1, 2, and 3 and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 3 following vinorelbine. Course repeats
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Quality of
      life is assessed before each treatment course. Patients are followed until death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued into this study over 15-30 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically proven metastatic adenocarcinoma of the prostate
        that is hormone refractory Hormone-refractory defined as at least 50% increase in PSA
        while continuing hormonal therapy Must have received prior hormonal manipulation including
        either orchiectomy or LHRH agonist Must be symptomatic and on a stable dose of pain
        medication No documented CNS involvement

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: Zubrod 1-2 Life expectancy:
        At least 16 weeks Hematopoietic: Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm3 Platelet
        count at least 100,000/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than 1.8 mg/dL Renal: Creatinine
        no greater than 1.8 mg/dL Other: Not HIV positive No concurrent infection No concurrent
        medical or psychiatric illness that precludes study compliance No prior or concurrent
        second malignancy in the past 5 years except basal or squamous cell skin cancer

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: No prior
        chemotherapy No other concurrent chemotherapy Endocrine therapy: See Disease
        Characteristics At least 4 weeks since prior antiandrogens If patients have received prior
        antiandrogens, PSA levels are reassessed at 4 week intervals until there is no decrease in
        PSA levels before registration into this study Radiotherapy: Prior radiotherapy allowed
        Must have recovered from prior radiotherapy Concurrent radiotherapy for symptomatic bone
        lesion allowed Surgery: Not specified Other: No other concurrent therapeutic study
      
