TITLE:
Motexafin Gadolinium Plus Radiation Therapy in Treating Children With Newly Diagnosed Brain Stem Glioma

CONDITION:
Untreated Childhood Brain Stem Glioma

INTERVENTION:
motexafin gadolinium

SUMMARY:

      Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Drugs such as motexafin
      gadolinium may make the tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy. Phase I trial to
      study the effectiveness of motexafin gadolinium plus radiation therapy in treating children
      who have newly diagnosed brain stem glioma
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and schedule of motexafin gadolinium
      administered prior to radiotherapy in children with newly diagnosed diffuse intrinsic
      pontine glioma.

      II. Determine the toxic effects of this drug given at the MTD in these patients.

      III. Determine the intratumor and brain distribution of this drug by magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of motexafin gadolinium.

      Approximately 2-5 hours before radiotherapy, patients receive motexafin gadolinium IV over 5
      minutes. Patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 6 weeks.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of motexafin gadolinium until the MTD is
      determined. The first cohort receives motexafin gadolinium 5 days a week for 3 weeks; the
      second cohort receives motexafin gadolinium 3 days a week for 6 weeks; and subsequent
      cohorts receive motexafin gadolinium 5 days a week for 6 weeks. The MTD is defined as the
      dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for up to 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 24 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 21 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Clinically and radiographically (MRI) proven newly diagnosed diffuse intrinsic
             brainstem glioma

               -  Greater than 50% intra-axial involvement of the pons, pons and medulla, pons and
                  midbrain, or entire brainstem

               -  Contiguous involvement of the thalamus or upper cervical cord allowed

          -  Performance status - ECOG 0-2

          -  More than 2 months

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin at least 10.0 g/dL (transfusion allowed)

          -  No glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 times normal

          -  SGOT or SGPT less than 1.5 times normal

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 times normal

          -  Creatinine clearance or radioisotope glomerular filtration rate at least 70 mL/min

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No concurrent immunomodulating agents

          -  No other concurrent chemotherapy

          -  Concurrent corticosteroid therapy allowed for increased intracranial pressure only

          -  No prior cranial radiotherapy

          -  No prior motexafin gadolinium

          -  No other concurrent experimental agents
      
