TITLE:
Irofulven in Treating Patients With Metastatic Breast Cancer

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
irofulven

SUMMARY:

      Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of irofulven in treating patients who have
      metastatic breast cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells
      from dividing so they stop growing or die.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the response rate and time to treatment failure in patients with refractory
      metastatic adenocarcinoma of the breast treated with irofulven.

      II. Assess the qualitative and quantitative toxic effects of this drug in these patients.

      III. Determine the population pharmacokinetics and the pharmacokinetics-pharmacodynamic
      relationships of this drug in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive irofulven IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment continues every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed metastatic adenocarcinoma of the breast

          -  Measurable disease outside previously irradiated area or occurred/progressed after
             completion of radiotherapy

          -  Must have received 1 or 2 prior chemotherapy regimens for metastatic disease

               -  More than 3 prior regimens allowed

          -  No active brain metastases or meningeal breast cancer involvement

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Sex:

          -  Male or female

        Performance status:

          -  SWOG 0-2

        Hematopoietic:

          -  WBC at least 3,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  SGOT or SGPT no greater than 3 times ULN (5 times ULN for liver metastases)

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 mg/dL OR

          -  Creatinine clearance at least 60 mL/min

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No history of myocardial infarction or unstable angina within the past 6 months

          -  No uncontrolled congestive heart failure

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  Prior diagnosis of cancer allowed (must be off cancer therapy and have no evidence of
             disease)

          -  No history of retinopathy and/or macular degeneration

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior irofulven
      
