TITLE:
Antineoplaston Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage III or Stage IV Prostate Cancer

CONDITION:
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate

INTERVENTION:
antineoplaston A10

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Antineoplastons are naturally occurring substances that may also be made in the
      laboratory. Antineoplastons may inhibit the growth of cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well antineoplaston therapy works in treating
      patients with stage III or stage IV prostate cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the antitumor activity of antineoplastons A10 and AS2-1 capsules in
           combination with total androgen blockade in patients with localized, regional or
           metastatic adenocarcinoma of the prostate by determining the proportion of patients who
           experience an objective tumor response.

        -  Evaluate the adverse effects of and tolerance to this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label study.

      Patients receive gradually escalating doses of antineoplastons A10 and AS2-1 capsules orally
      6-7 times daily until the maximum tolerated dose is reached. Treatment continues for at
      least 3 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Concurrently,
      patients continue hormonal therapy with flutamide, leuprolide, or bicalutamide at the same
      dose as before beginning antineoplaston therapy.

      Tumors are measured every 4 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then
      annually for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically proven localized, regional, or metastatic adenocarcinoma of the
             prostate

          -  Progressive disease during prior hormonal therapy (both antiandrogen and
             gonadotropin-releasing hormone) and must continue hormonal therapy

          -  Measurable tumors or tumor markers

          -  Bone metastases allowed

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  Karnofsky 60-100%

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 3 months

        Hematopoietic:

          -  WBC at least 3,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  No hepatic failure

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 2.5 mg/dL

          -  SGOT no greater than 2 times normal

        Renal:

          -  No chronic renal failure

          -  BUN less than 60 mg/dL

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2.5 mg/dL OR

          -  Creatinine clearance greater than 60 mL/min

          -  Blood ammonia normal

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No severe heart disease

        Pulmonary:

          -  No severe lung disease

        Other:

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception during and for 4 weeks after study
             participation

          -  No serious active infections or fever

          -  No other prior or concurrent second malignancy within the past 2 years

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior biologic therapy and recovered

        Chemotherapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy and recovered

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Radiotherapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy and recovered

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior investigational clinical trial

          -  No other concurrent treatment for metastatic prostate cancer
      
