TITLE:
Oral Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Elderly Patients With Intermediate or High-Grade Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas

CONDITION:
Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug and giving the drugs in different
      ways may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of oral combination chemotherapy and
      G-CSF in elderly patients with intermediate- or high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Assess the feasibility and toxicity of oral combination chemotherapy with granulocyte
           colony-stimulating factor in elderly patients with intermediate and high grade
           non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

        -  Determine the objective response rate, response duration, and survival in this patient
           population.

      OUTLINE: All patients receive one cycle of oral chemotherapy, 6 weeks in duration. Etoposide
      is given on days 1-3 and cyclophosphamide and procarbazine are given on days 22-31 of each
      cycle. Lomustine is given on day 1 of cycles 1 and 3 only. Filgrastim (granulocyte
      colony-stimulating factor; G-CSF) is given subcutaneously on days 5-21 and 33-42 of each
      cycle.

      Patients who have disease progression after one cycle of therapy or at any time thereafter
      are taken off the study. Patients with a complete response after 1 cycle of therapy receive
      2 additional cycles of chemotherapy and are observed off treatment. Patients with a partial
      response (PR) also receive 2 additional cycles of chemotherapy. Following the third cycle of
      chemotherapy, if residual disease is confined to 1 or 2 nodal sites, patients receive
      radiation therapy. All other patients with a PR are treated at investigator's discretion.

      Patients are followed every 3 months until death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 32 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 60 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Biopsy proven stage I through IV intermediate to high grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of
             B-cell, T-cell, or indeterminate immunologic phenotype

          -  Measurable or evaluable

          -  No cytologic or radiographic evidence of CNS lymphoma

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  60 and over

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0-3

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 6 weeks

        Hematopoietic:

          -  WBC at least 1500/mm3

          -  Platelet count at least 50,000/mm3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 3.0 mg/dL

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 3.0 mg/dL

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Prior radiotherapy allowed for localized stage I or II disease that has progressed
             beyond initial radiotherapy ports

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified
      
