TITLE:
Quality-of-Life Study of Patients With Previously Treated Ovarian Cancer

CONDITION:
Ovarian Cancer

INTERVENTION:
psychosocial assessment and care

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Quality-of-life assessment of patients undergoing cancer treatment may help
      determine the intermediate- and long-term effects of treatment in patients with cancer.

      PURPOSE: This clinical trial studies the quality of life in patients with previously treated
      ovarian cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare quality of life in terms of health status, sexual functioning,
      psychological/emotional well being, and social functioning in ovarian germ cell cancer
      survivors vs a matched healthy control group. II. Predict quality of life in these patients
      through the additive effects of cancer diagnosis and treatment, sociodemographic
      characteristics, other stressors, and social network variables.

      OUTLINE: Patients identify up to 3 healthy acquaintance controls within 3 years of the same
      age. Patients and controls complete a written questionnaire, which takes about 30 minutes,
      and a telephone interview, which takes about 1 hour, to assess quality of life.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 190 patients and 190 healthy controls will be accrued for this
      study within 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: History of early or advanced ovarian germ cell tumors
        Continuously disease free for at least 2 years prior to study Must have been enrolled on
        GOG protocols 45, 78, 90, and 116 or similar protocols of cisplatin-based chemotherapy at
        M.D. Anderson Cancer Center

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: Not specified Life
        expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic: Not specified Renal: Not
        specified Other: Must be able to complete a written questionnaire and telephone interview
        in English

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: See Disease
        Characteristics Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: No prior radiotherapy
        Surgery: Not specified
      
