TITLE:
Antineoplaston Therapy in Treating Patients With Low-Grade Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma

CONDITION:
Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
antineoplaston A10

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Antineoplastons are naturally-occurring substances that may also be made in the
      laboratory. Antineoplastons may inhibit the growth of cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well antineoplaston therapy works in treating
      patients with low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety and possible effectiveness of antineoplastons A10 and AS2-1 in
           patients with serious or immediately life-threatening low grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

        -  Describe the response, tolerance to, and side effects of this regimen in these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open label study.

      Patients receive gradually escalating doses of intravenous antineoplaston A10 and
      antineoplaston AS2-1 6 times per day until the maximum tolerated dose is reached. Treatment
      continues for at least 12 months in the absence of disease progression and unacceptable
      toxicity. After 12 months, patients with responding or stable disease may continue
      treatment.

      Tumors are measured every 8 weeks for the first 6 months, every 3 months for the first 2
      years, every 6 months for years 3 and 4, and yearly for years 5 and 6.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20-40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically proven stage II, III, or IV low grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma that is
             unlikely to respond to existing therapy or for which no established therapy exists
             NOTE: A new classification scheme for adult non-Hodgkin's lymphoma has been adopted
             by PDQ. The terminology of "indolent" or "aggressive" lymphoma will replace the
             former terminology of "low", "intermediate", or "high" grade lymphoma. However, this
             protocol uses the former terminology.

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  Karnofsky 60-100%

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 2 months

        Hematopoietic:

          -  WBC greater than 2,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count greater than 20,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin normal

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine normal

          -  No history of renal conditions that contraindicate high dosages of sodium

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No hypertension

          -  No history of congestive heart failure

          -  No history of other cardiovascular conditions that contraindicate high dosages of
             sodium

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception during and for 4 weeks after study

          -  No serious active infections

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since immunotherapy and recovered

          -  No concurrent immunomodulating agents (e.g., interferon, interleukin-2)

        Chemotherapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy (6 weeks for nitrosoureas) and recovered

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior corticosteroids

          -  No concurrent corticosteroids

        Radiotherapy:

          -  At least 8 weeks since prior radiotherapy and recovered

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No prior antineoplaston therapy

          -  No other concurrent antineoplastic agents

          -  No concurrent antibiotics, antifungals, or antivirals
      
