TITLE:
Interleukin-12 in Treating Patients With Cancer in the Abdomen

CONDITION:
Anal Cancer

INTERVENTION:
Recombinant Interleukin-12

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Interleukin-12 may kill tumor cells by stimulating a person's white blood cells
      to kill cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of interleukin-12 in treating patients
      with cancer in the abdomen.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of intraperitoneal interleukin-12 in
      patients with Mullerian carcinoma (closed to accrual as of 8/23/01), gastrointestinal
      carcinoma, or peritoneal mesothelioma (closed to accrual as of 8/23/01). II. Determine the
      qualitative and quantitative toxicity and reversibility of toxicity of this regimen in these
      patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study. Patients receive intraperitoneal
      interleukin-12 over 30 minutes once weekly for 4 weeks. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for
      up to 6 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. Patients
      with stable or responsive disease may receive an additional 6 courses. Patients receive
      escalating doses of intraperitoneal interleukin-12 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is
      determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients
      experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is established, additional patients are
      accrued to receive interleukin-12 at the recommended dose.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 20-40 patients will be accrued for this study within 2
      years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically or cytologically confirmed Mullerian carcinoma
        (ovarian epithelial or peritoneal carcinoma) (closed to accrual as of 8/23/01) OR
        Gastrointestinal cancer with abdominal carcinomatosis OR Peritoneal mesothelioma (closed
        to accrual as of 8/23/01) Must have received an adequate course of any platinum-based
        chemotherapy regimen for ovarian cancer with evidence of intraabdominal disease Must have
        received an adequate course of fluorouracil-based treatment for metastatic colon cancer
        Intact primary gastrointestinal tumor allowed if not at risk of obstruction and/or
        bleeding Abdominal lesions must be less than 10 cm Extraperitoneal lesions must be less
        than 2 cm No hepatic disease No clinically significant pleural effusion (controlled by
        pleurodesis allowed) No brain metastases No significant adhesions or symptoms of
        obstruction

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: Zubrod 0-2 Life expectancy:
        Not specified Hematopoietic: Absolute granulocyte count at least 1,500/mm3 Platelet count
        at least 100,000/mm3 Hemoglobin at least 9 g/dL (transfusion allowed) Lymphocyte count at
        least 800/mm3 Hepatic: See Disease Characteristics Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 mg/dL
        SGOT or SGPT less than 2.5 times upper limit of normal Albumin at least 3.5 g/dL Hepatitis
        B and C negative Renal: Creatinine no greater than 1.5 mg/dL Cardiovascular: No
        significant heart disease Other: Not pregnant or nursing Negative pregnancy test Fertile
        patients must use effective contraception Loss of no more than 10% of body weight over a 4
        month period No overt autoimmune disease No active ulcer disease No prior inflammatory
        bowel disease (e.g., Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis)

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: No other concurrent immunotherapy
        Chemotherapy: At least 3 weeks since prior chemotherapy (6 weeks for mitomycin or
        nitrosoureas) and recovered No concurrent chemotherapy Endocrine therapy: No chronic
        steroid therapy Radiotherapy: At least 3 months since prior localized radiotherapy (e.g.,
        pelvic or small field) and recovered No radiotherapy to whole abdomen No concurrent
        radiotherapy Surgery: Recovered from prior surgery At least 3 weeks since prior major
        abdominal surgery At least 2 weeks since prior laparoscopy
      
