TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Advanced Cancer

CONDITION:
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific

INTERVENTION:
gemcitabine hydrochloride

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combining R115777 with gemcitabine in
      treating patients with advanced cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose limiting toxicities of tipifarnib in
           combination with gemcitabine in patients with advanced cancer.

        -  Investigate potential pharmacokinetic interactions between tipifarnib and gemcitabine
           in these patients.

        -  Determine the efficacy of this regimen in patients with measurable or evaluable
           disease.

        -  Evaluate the quality of life of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of tipifarnib.

      Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 and oral tipifarnib
      every 12 hours beginning on day 2. Treatment continues every 4 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients each receive escalating doses of tipifarnib until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is reached. The MTD is defined as the dose at which fewer than one
      third of the patients experience dose limiting toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed before treatment, on day 22 of each course, and at the end of
      treatment.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Pathologically proven advanced cancer for which no curative therapy exists

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Absolute neutrophil count greater than 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count greater than 100,000/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin greater than 9 g/dL

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin normal

          -  SGOT and SGPT no greater than 2 times upper limit of normal (ULN) (no greater than 5
             times ULN if liver metastases present)

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine normal

        Other:

          -  Unassisted oral or enteral intake sufficient to maintain a reasonable state of
             nutrition

          -  No concurrent medical condition that is likely to interfere with study participation

          -  No active visual disturbances that require intervention beyond corrective lenses

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  No prior bone marrow transplantation

          -  No concurrent immunotherapy

        Chemotherapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy (6 weeks for nitrosoureas or mitomycin)

          -  No prior high dose chemotherapy with bone marrow or stem cell rescue

          -  No other concurrent chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  No concurrent hormone therapy (except megestrol acetate)

        Radiotherapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy

          -  No prior radiotherapy to 25% or more of bone marrow

          -  No concurrent radiotherapy (except palliative radiotherapy within the first 28 days
             of the study)

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  At least 30 days since prior investigational therapy

          -  No concurrent investigational therapy
      
