TITLE:
Carboplatin and Vincristine Plus Radiation Therapy Followed By Adjuvant Chemotherapy in Treating Young Patients With Newly Diagnosed CNS Embryonal Tumors

CONDITION:
Brain Tumors

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin and vincristine, work in
      different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Radiation
      therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Combining carboplatin and vincristine
      with radiation therapy followed by adjuvant chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy
      plus radiation therapy followed adjuvant chemotherapy in treating young patients who have
      newly diagnosed high-risk CNS embryonal tumors.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the feasible dose and duration of carboplatin combined with craniospinal and
           local radiotherapy and adjuvant chemotherapy in children with newly diagnosed,
           high-risk CNS embryonal tumors (Phase I completed as of 11-25-03).

        -  Determine the feasibility of administering cyclophosphamide and vincristine with or
           without cisplatin after concurrent carboplatin, vincristine, and radiotherapy in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the overall and individual toxicity rates of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the complete response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Obtain preliminary estimates of event-free survival of patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the prognostic significance of enhancing tumor after completion of
           radiotherapy on event-free survival of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot, dose-escalation study of carboplatin. (Phase I completed as of
      11-25-03.)

      Within 31 days of definitive surgery, all patients receive vincristine IV weekly for 6 weeks
      and carboplatin IV over 15-20 minutes (after completion of vincristine infusion) 5 days a
      week for 6 weeks. Patients undergo radiotherapy (1-4 hours after carboplatin infusion) 5
      days a week for 6 weeks.

      Cohorts of 6-12 patients receive escalating doses of carboplatin until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which no more than 3 of 12
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. (Phase I completed as of 11-25-03.)

      At 6 weeks after completion of radiotherapy, patients are assigned to arm II for
      adjuvant/maintenance chemotherapy. (Arm I closed to accrual as of 11-25-03.)

        -  Arm I (closed to accrual as of 11-25-03): Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1
           hour on days 0 and 1, vincristine IV on days 0 and 7, and filgrastim (G-CSF) IV or
           subcutaneously (SC) beginning on day 2 and continuing for at least 10 days until blood
           counts recover.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 2, vincristine
           IV on days 0 and 7, cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 0, and G-CSF IV or SC beginning on
           day 3 and continuing for at least 10 days until blood counts recover.

      In both arms, adjuvant/maintenance chemotherapy repeats every 4 weeks for 6 courses.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 8 months, every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months
      for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 162 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 3 Years to 21 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically proven high-risk CNS embryonal tumors, including:

               -  Primitive neuroectodermal tumors

               -  Atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor

               -  Medulloblastoma

               -  Desmoplastic medulloblastoma

               -  Ependymoblastoma

               -  Medullomyoblastoma

               -  Spongioblastoma

               -  Spongioblastoma polare

               -  Primitive polar spongioblastoma

               -  Neuroepitheliomatous neoplasms

               -  Medulloepithelioma

               -  Neuroblastoma

               -  Pineoblastoma

          -  No bone marrow involvement or bone metastases

          -  No M4 disease

          -  M3 disease must have evidence of tumor on spinal MRI

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  3 to 21 at diagnosis

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 8 weeks

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Absolute neutrophil count greater than 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3 (transfusion independent)

          -  Hemoglobin at least 10.0 g/dL (packed red blood cell transfusions allowed)

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin less than 1.5 mg/dL

          -  SGOT/SGPT less than 2.5 times normal

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine less than 1.5 times upper limit of normal OR

          -  Creatinine clearance or radioisotope glomerular filtration rate at least 70 mL/min

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No prior radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  Prior definitive surgery allowed
      
