TITLE:
Acupressure and Acustimulation Wrist Bands for the Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Caused by Chemotherapy

CONDITION:
Nausea and Vomiting

INTERVENTION:
dolasetron mesylate

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Pressure or nerve stimulation applied to an acupuncture point on the inside of
      the wrist may help control nausea and vomiting during chemotherapy.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase II trial to study the effectiveness of acupressure and
      acustimulation wrist bands in treating nausea and vomiting in patients undergoing
      chemotherapy for cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate the efficacy of acupressure and acustimulation as adjuncts to
      standard serotonin antiemetics in reducing acute nausea (day of treatment) and delayed
      nausea (1-4 days following treatment) associated with cisplatin or doxorubicin based
      chemotherapy in cancer patients. II. Evaluate the efficacy of acupressure and acustimulation
      in reducing acute and delayed vomiting and in improving quality of life in cancer patients.
      III. Investigate the relationship between expectations for the development of
      chemotherapy-related nausea/vomiting and its actual occurrence in cancer patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to chemotherapy agent
      and research site. Patients are randomized to one of three treatment arms. Arm I: Patients
      receive standard antiemetic therapy with serotonin receptor antagonists. Arm II: Patients
      receive standard antiemetic therapy with serotonin receptor antagonists and wear an
      acupressure wrist band (an elastic band equipped with a small plastic button used to apply
      pressure to a specific point on the wrist) continuously for 5 consecutive days except when
      necessary to avoid immersion in water. Patients may wear the band on either wrist, including
      alternating between wrists if desired. Arm III: Patients receive standard antiemetic therapy
      with serotonin receptor antagonists and wear an acustimulation wrist band (a portable
      transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulator (TENS) device) continuously for 5 consecutive
      days except when necessary to avoid immersion in water. Patients may wear the band on either
      wrist, including alternating between wrists if desired, and may adjust the intensity of
      stimulation for optimum effectiveness. All patients complete a questionnaire concerning
      expectations of nausea and other side effects prior to receiving chemotherapy with cisplatin
      and doxorubicin. Patients in arms II and III complete this measure after the wrist band is
      in position. All patients complete a questionnaire and a 5 day diary at home concerning
      nausea and emesis following the first chemotherapy treatment, and then complete a quality of
      life questionnaire on the fourth day following treatment.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 700 patients will be accrued for this study over 3 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 120 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Diagnosis of cancer No symptomatic brain metastases

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: Not specified Life
        expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic: Not specified Renal: Not
        specified Cardiovascular: No cardiac pacemaker Other: No clinical evidence of current or
        impending bowel obstruction Able to understand English

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: No concurrent interferon Chemotherapy: No
        prior chemotherapy Concurrent cisplatin or doxorubicin based chemotherapy required No
        multiple day doses of cisplatin, doxorubicin, hexamethylmelamine, dacarbazine, nitrosourea
        or streptozocin Other concurrent chemotherapy allowed on 1 or multiple days Endocrine
        therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: No concurrent radiotherapy Surgery: Not specified
        Other: Serotonin receptor antagonist antiemetic (ondansetron, granisetron, tropisetron, or
        dolasetron mesylate) required
      
