TITLE:
Carboplatin and Temozolomide in Treating Patients With Unresectable or Metastatic Melanoma

CONDITION:
Melanoma (Skin)

INTERVENTION:
carboplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combining carboplatin and temozolomide
      in treating patients who have unresectable or metastatic melanoma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of carboplatin and temozolomide in
      patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. II. Assess the safety of this cytotoxic
      combination in this patient population. III. Assess the preliminary evidence of efficacy of
      this combination in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open label, dose escalation study. Patients receive oral temozolomide
      once daily on days 1-5. Carboplatin IV is administered over 1 hour on day 1. Courses are
      repeated every 28 days. Treatment continues for a maximum of 6 courses in the absence of
      toxicity and disease progression. Sequential dose escalation of carboplatin with a fixed
      dose of temozolomide is followed by sequential dose escalation of carboplatin at a higher
      fixed dose of temozolomide. Dose escalation in cohorts of 3-6 patients each continues until
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding
      that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxic effects. If the
      combination treatment with carboplatin given on day 1 of temozolomide therapy is more toxic
      than anticipated, then the study is repeated with carboplatin given on day 5 of temozolomide
      therapy. Patients are followed at least every 2 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically proven unresectable or metastatic melanoma

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: Over 18 Performance status: ECOG 0-2 Life expectancy:
        Greater than 3 months Hematopoietic: Hemoglobin greater than 10 g/dL WBC greater than
        3,000/mm3 Platelet count greater than 100,000/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin less than 1.8 mg/dL
        AST less than 3 times upper limit of normal (ULN) Alkaline phosphatase less than 3 times
        ULN No hepatitis B Renal: Creatinine less than 1.4 mg/dL OR Creatinine clearance greater
        than 50 mL/min Cardiovascular: No New York Heart Association class II cardiac disease
        Pulmonary: No pulmonary disease requiring oxygen therapy Other: Not pregnant Fertile
        patients must use effective contraception during study and for 3 months following No
        concurrent serious nonmalignant disease No AIDS No uncontrolled infection No uncontrolled
        diabetes No medical condition that will interfere with taking oral temozolomide

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: At least 4 weeks since prior biologic therapy
        and recovered No concurrent biologic therapy Chemotherapy: At least 4 weeks since prior
        chemotherapy and recovered No prior carboplatin and temozolomide No other concurrent
        chemotherapy Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: At least 4 weeks since prior
        radiotherapy and recovered At least 3 weeks since prior palliative radiotherapy No
        concurrent radiotherapy Surgery: No concurrent surgery to tumor Other: No other concurrent
        investigational agent
      
