TITLE:
Internal Radiation Therapy Plus Carmustine Implants in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Refractory Malignant Glioma

CONDITION:
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors

INTERVENTION:
polifeprosan 20 with carmustine implant

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Internal radiation uses high-energy radiation to damage tumor cells. Drugs used
      in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or
      die. Combining internal radiation therapy with chemotherapy implants may kill remaining
      tumor cells following surgery.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of internal radiation therapy plus
      carmustine implants in treating patients who have recurrent or refractory malignant glioma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Assess the toxic effects of concurrent permanent iodine I 125 interstitial
      seed implants and polifeprosan 20 with carmustine implant (Gliadel wafers) in patients with
      recurrent or refractory malignant glioma. II. Assess preliminary efficacy of this regimen in
      terms of progression free survival and overall survival of these patients. III. Assess
      impact of this regimen on the quality of life and performance status of these patients. IV.
      Assess site of tumor progression following this regimen in these patients. V. Assess the
      relationship between progression free survival and the MIB-1 proliferative index of the
      resected malignant glioma.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study. Patients undergo craniotomy with the intent to
      obtain a complete resection of enhancing tumor. Following maximum tumor removal, iodine I
      125 seeds and up to 8 polifeprosan 20 with carmustine implants (Gliadel wafers) are
      implanted into the resected tumor cavity. Cohorts of 6 patients each receive increasing
      numbers of Gliadel wafers placed into the tumor cavity. Quality of life is assessed at
      baseline, then every 3 months, and at tumor progression. Patients are followed monthly until
      death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 12-18 patients will be accrued for this study within 18
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed recurrent or refractory glioblastoma
        multiforme, gliosarcoma, anaplastic astrocytoma, anaplastic oligodendroglioma, anaplastic
        oligoastrocytoma (mixed glioma), anaplastic pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma, or malignant
        dedifferentiation from prior low grade glioma Tumor in first relapse Measurable disease by
        MRI scan Enhancing lesion amenable to gross total resection Postoperative resection cavity
        not communicating freely with ventricular system

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: Karnofsky 60-100% Life
        expectancy: Greater than 8 weeks Hematopoietic: Absolute neutrophil count greater than
        1,000/mm3 Hemoglobin greater than 10.0 g/dL Platelet count greater than 100,000/mm3
        Hepatic: Bilirubin less than 1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN) SGOT or SGPT less than
        2.5 times ULN Renal: Not specified Other: Not pregnant or nursing Negative pregnancy test
        Fertile patients must use effective contraception HIV negative No AIDS-related illness No
        other malignancy within past 5 years, except: Basal or squamous cell carcinoma of the skin
        Carcinoma in situ of the cervix No psychological, familial, sociological, or geographical
        conditions that would interfere with study compliance No active infection requiring
        systemic antibiotics No nonmalignant systemic disease considered to increase medical risk

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: No concurrent biologic therapy Chemotherapy:
        At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy (6 weeks since nitrosoureas or mitomycin) and
        recovered No prior polifeprosan 20 with carmustine implant (Gliadel wafers) Prior adjuvant
        chemotherapy allowed No other concurrent chemotherapy Endocrine therapy: Patient on stable
        steroid therapy for at least 2 weeks prior to study No concurrent hormonal agents
        Radiotherapy: Prior radiosensitization allowed and recovered Prior external beam
        radiotherapy required and recovered No concurrent radiotherapy (including palliative)
        Surgery: Prior surgery or biopsy required and recovered Other: No prior iodine I 125 seed
        implants Concurrent alternative therapy allowed No other concurrent antineoplastic therapy
        No other concurrent investigational drugs
      
