TITLE:
Methotrexate Compared With Paclitaxel in Treating Patients With Advanced Head and Neck Cancer

CONDITION:
Head and Neck Cancer

INTERVENTION:
methotrexate

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. It is not yet known whether methotrexate or paclitaxel is more
      effective in treating patients with advanced head and neck cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of methotrexate with that
      of paclitaxel in treating patients who have advanced head and neck cancer that cannot be
      treated with cisplatin.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the progression free survival, median survival, and overall survival
      in cisplatin-ineligible patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck
      following weekly outpatient methotrexate (arm I) versus paclitaxel (arm II). II. Compare the
      response rate of patients in the two treatment arms. III. Compare the Trial Outcome Index
      scores of patients in the two treatment arms. IV. Compare the weight change, neurologic
      toxicity, and mucositis scores of patients in the two treatment arms.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified by performance status (0-1 vs
      2) and age (less than 60 vs at least 60). Patients are randomized to receive methotrexate IV
      bolus every week for 4 weeks (arm I) or paclitaxel IV over 1 hour every week for 4 weeks
      (arm II). All patients receive at least 4 weeks of treatment (1 course). Patients continue
      treatment for a total of 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: There will be 230 patients accrued into this study over 2.4 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed advanced, incurable, squamous cell
        carcinoma of the head and neck Recurrent disease in a previously irradiated field must be
        biopsy proven or documented unequivocally by physical exam or radiograph(s) Measurable or
        evaluable disease Patients with ECOG performance status of 0-1 must be ineligible for
        protocol E-1395 and unable to tolerate cisplatin-based therapy for 1 or more of the
        following reasons: Hearing loss that precludes cisplatin Unable to handle a fluid load
        necessitated by cisplatin-based treatment, due to underlying cardiac or pulmonary disease
        Mild renal insufficiency (creatinine 1.6-2.0 mg/dL) or creatinine clearance of 40-60
        mL/min that would make cisplatin treatment difficult, if not dangerous History of brain
        metastases allowed if disease has stabilized or improved after radiation and/or craniotomy
        No history of carcinomatous meningitis

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: ECOG 0-2 (See Disease
        Characteristics) Life expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: Absolute neutrophil count
        at least 1,800/mm3 Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than
        1.5 mg/dL SGOT and SGPT no greater than 5 times upper limit of normal Renal: See Disease
        Characteristics Creatinine no greater than 2.0 mg/dL No evidence of symptomatic
        hypercalcemia Cardiovascular: See Disease Characteristics No active angina or uncontrolled
        arrhythmias Metabolic: No uncontrolled diabetes; no random blood sugar at least 300 mg/dL
        Neurological: No evidence of ongoing grade 2 or greater peripheral sensory neuropathy
        Pulmonary: See Disease Characteristics Other: No other concurrent, active, invasive
        malignancies No significant detectable infection Not pregnant or nursing Effective
        contraception required of all fertile patients

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: No prior
        chemotherapy except in the adjuvant, neoadjuvant, or radiosensitizing setting No prior
        chemotherapy for recurrent or persistent disease after definitive local therapy At least 6
        months since prior methotrexate or paclitaxel Endocrine therapy: Not specified
        Radiotherapy: See Disease Characteristics At least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy
        Surgery: See Disease Characteristics Recovered from prior surgery
      
