TITLE:
Monoclonal Antibody Therapy in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer That Has Not Responded to Hormone Therapy

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
monoclonal antibody muJ591

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies can locate tumor cells and either kill them or deliver
      tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of muJ591 monoclonal antibody in treating
      patients who have metastatic prostate cancer that has not responded to hormone therapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Define the toxicity and maximum tolerated dose of monoclonal antibody muJ591
      in patients with hormone independent prostate cancer. II. Define the pharmacokinetics and
      biodistribution of monoclonal antibody muJ591 in these patients. III. Define the human
      antimouse antibody response to this therapy. IV. Define the preliminary efficacy of this
      therapy in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study. Patients receive a single dose of intravenous
      iodine I 131-labeled monoclonal antibody muJ591 on day 0, combined with an unlabeled (cold)
      dose of monoclonal antibody muJ591. Anterior and posterior imaging is obtained 1 hour after
      labeled muJ591 administration and on days 0, 2, 4, and 6. Subsequent cohorts of 3-6 patients
      receive fixed iodine-labeled doses with escalating cold doses of monoclonal antibody muJ591
      until the maximum tolerated dose is reached. Patients are followed for a minimum of 8 weeks
      after muJ591 therapy or until disease progression. Patients with stable or responding
      disease who are human anti-mouse antibody negative may receive subsequent treatments at the
      discretion of the principal investigator.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 21 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically proven metastatic adenocarcinoma of the prostate,
        defined by: Abnormal CT, MRI, or bone scan and/or Rising prostate specific antigen (PSA)
        levels (on 3 consecutive occasions over at least 6 weeks) despite hormonal therapy PSA at
        least 2.0 at study entry No active CNS metastases

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 21 and over Performance status: Karnofsky 60-100% Life
        expectancy: At least 6 months Hematopoietic: WBC greater than 3,500/mm3 Platelet count
        greater than 100,000/mm3 No serious hematologic disease Hepatic: SGOT less than 2.0 times
        upper limit of normal Bilirubin less than 1.5 mg/dL No serious hepatic disease Renal:
        Creatinine less than 2.0 mg/dL Calcium less than 13.5 mg/dL No serious renal disease
        Cardiovascular: No active angina No New York Heart Association class III-IV No other
        serious cardiac disease Pulmonary: No serious respiratory disease Other: No active
        uncontrolled infection Evidence of pre-existing antimouse antibody at the time of
        screening

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: At least 6 weeks
        since prior cytotoxic chemotherapy Endocrine therapy: At least 6 weeks since prior adrenal
        hormone inhibitors or corticosteroid therapy Antiandrogen therapy must be discontinued
        prior to measuring PSA values Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone analog must be
        maintained during study OR must be discontinued at least 10 weeks prior to study entry
        (for 28 day depot preparation) or 24 weeks prior to study entry (for 3 month depot
        preparation) Radiotherapy: At least 6 weeks since prior radiotherapy Surgery: Not
        specified
      
