TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy Plus Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation in Treating Patients With Small Cell Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Lung Cancer

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining chemotherapy with peripheral stem cell
      transplantation may allow the doctor to give higher doses of chemotherapy drugs and kill
      more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy plus
      peripheral stem cell transplantation in treating patients who have small cell lung cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the feasibility of the administration of intensive chemotherapy
      with ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide followed by peripheral blood stem cell support
      in patients with small cell lung cancer. II. Determine the rate and duration of response in
      these patients after this treatment. III. Determine the progression free and overall
      survival of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open label, multicenter study. Patients receive 4 courses of intensive
      chemotherapy consisting of ifosfamide IV over 24 hours and carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day
      1 and etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 2. Filgrastim (G-CSF) is administered
      subcutaneously beginning on day 2 and continuing until blood cell counts recover. Courses
      repeat every 14 days. Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are collected after course 1. PBSC
      are reinfused on day 3 of courses 2 and 3. Patients who experience a complete response
      receive prophylactic cerebral irradiation on day 71. Patients are followed every 2 months
      for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 36 patients will be accrued for this study within 18 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically proven small cell lung cancer Good prognosis on
        the Manchester scale, with no more than 2 of the following high risk factors: Karnofsky
        less than 60% Hyponatremia (low sodium) Alkaline phosphatase at least 1.5 times upper
        limit of normal (ULN) LDH greater than ULN No symptomatic CNS metastases requiring
        corticosteroids

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 to 60 Performance status: See Disease Characteristics
        Life expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: Neutrophil count at least 2,000/mm3 Platelet
        count at least 125,000/mm3 Hepatic: See Disease Characteristics Bilirubin less than 1.25
        times upper limit of normal (ULN) SGOT/SGPT less than 1.25 times ULN Renal: Creatinine
        less than ULN Cardiovascular: LVEF at least 50% No myocardial infarction within 5 years No
        uncontrolled cardiac disease Pulmonary: No severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
        Other: No neurological symptoms greater than grade 2 No severe psychoses No other
        concurrent medical problems No active infection HIV negative No allergy to E. coli derived
        products No prior malignancy within 5 years except basal cell skin cancer, carcinoma in
        situ of the cervix, or lung or respiratory cancer in remission Not pregnant or nursing

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: See Disease Characteristics No prior antineoplastic therapy
      
