TITLE:
Gene Testing to Help in the Diagnosis and Treatment of Childhood Brain Tumors

CONDITION:
Brain Tumors

INTERVENTION:
DNA ploidy analysis

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Analyzing the number and structure of genes found in a child's cancer cells may
      help doctors improve methods of diagnosing and treating children with brain tumors.

      PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying the number and structure of genes in cancer cells
      of children with brain tumors.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the chromosomal gains and losses by DNA ploidy analysis and comparative
           genomic hybridization in patients with primitive neuroectodermal tumors or
           medulloblastomas.

        -  Determine the frequency of specific chromosomal abnormalities, including deletions of
           chromosomal regions 6, 17, and 22, in these patients.

        -  Perform a statistical analysis to determine possible associations of chromosomal
           abnormalities and DNA ploidy with patient age, tumor histology, tumor location, extent
           of disease, and event-free survival.

      OUTLINE: DNA ploidy analysis will be performed to determine the overall level of aneuploidy.
      The results are compared to the comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) analysis, which is
      used to demonstrate tumor-specific losses or gains, including amplification, of specific
      chromosomal regions. Tumors are also screened for specific abnormalities by fluorescent in
      situ hybridization (FISH), which detects chromosomal rearrangements, including balanced
      translocations, deletions, amplifications, etc. PCR-based microsatellite polymorphism
      analysis may also be performed.

      Primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs) are screened by FISH with a distal 17p13.3 cosmid
      and a 17q25 cosmid to identify tumors with a 17p deletion. Atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumors
      and PNETs without a 17p deletion are screened by FISH with a series of cosmids from 22q11.2.
      PNETs are also screened by interphase FISH with cosmids from chromosome 6 to identify tumors
      with deletions.

      Patients do not receive the results of the genetic testing and the results do not influence
      the type or duration of treatment.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: This study will accrue 360 specimens.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 20 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed primary CNS malignancy consistent with primitive
             neuroectodermal tumor, medulloblastoma, or atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor

          -  Must be entered on CCG-9921, CCG-9931, CCG-A9961, CCG-99703 or other front-line
             studies developed from CCG-90024 or CCG-90025

          -  Retrospective specimens also obtained from CCG-921, CCG-923, CCG-9892, CCG-9921, and
             CCG-9931

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  Under 21

        Performance status:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Life expectancy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Hematopoietic:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Hepatic:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Renal:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  No prior radiotherapy

        Surgery

          -  Not specified
      
