TITLE:
Diagnostic Study of Patients With Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia or Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
laboratory biomarker analysis

SUMMARY:

      This research trial studies molecular genetic features in blood and tissue samples from
      patients with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia or acute promyelocytic leukemia.
      Studying samples of blood and tissue from patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia or
      acute promyelocytic leukemia in the laboratory may help doctors identify and learn more
      about biomarkers related to cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Objectives:

        1. To perform quantitative PCR using known leukemia specific markers in diagnostic bone
           marrow specimens of patients with newly diagnosed APL and ALL and to correlative
           pre-treatment copy number with other biologic and molecular features, clinical
           response, and treatment outcome.

        2. To evaluate the expression of novel genes or microRNAs implicated in disease
           pathogenesis and treatment response in pretreatment blood and bone marrow specimens of
           patients with APL and ALL and to correlate expression level with other biological
           features and treatment outcome.

        3. To evaluate the clinical significance of sequential quantitative MRD measurements using
           real-time quantitative PCR and/or flow cytometry during and following treatment of ALL
           and APL and correlate these findings with efficacy of novel treatment approaches and
           with other biological and clinical prognostic features.

        4. To compare measurement of MRD in blood with bone marrow specimens in sequential
           remission specimens of patients receiving treatment on ALL and APL treatment trials.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        -  Patients with a diagnosis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) entered onto CALGB
             treatment trials for previously untreated ALL must be enrolled on CALGB 9862. Entry
             on CALGB 8461 is strongly encouraged.

          -  Patients with a diagnosis of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) enrolled on SWOG
             S0521 or S0535 must be enrolled on CALGB 9862.
      
