TITLE:
Interferon Alfa Plus Sargramostim in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Chronic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
recombinant interferon alfa

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Interferon alfa may interfere with the growth of cancer cells. Colony-stimulating
      factors such as sargramostim may increase the number of immune cells found in bone marrow or
      peripheral blood and may help a person's immune system recover from the side effects of
      therapy. Combining sargramostim with interferon alfa may kill more cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of sargramostim in treating patients who
      are receiving interferon alfa for chronic phase chronic myelogenous leukemia that is in
      remission.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Estimate the rate of major cytogenetic responses to sargramostim (GM-CSF) and
      interferon alfa in patients with newly diagnosed chronic phase chronic myeloid leukemia. II.
      Estimate the dosing, schedule, and toxic effects of GM-CSF plus interferon alfa in these
      patients.

      OUTLINE: All patients are in hematologic remission on subcutaneous interferon alfa upon
      entering the study. Once a complete hematologic response is achieved and the interferon alfa
      dose has been stable for 14 days, patients receive subcutaneous sargramostim (GM-CSF) daily
      for 6 months. Patients are followed at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 48 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Cytogenetically or molecularly proven chronic phase chronic
        myeloid leukemia (CML) that is Philadelphia chromosome positive OR Philadelphia chromosome
        negative with evidence of the BCR-ABL rearrangement or evidence of the P120 protein On
        interferon alfa therapy less than 6 months In complete hematologic response, defined as:
        WBC less than 10,000/mm3 Platelet count less than 450,000/mm3 Less than 5% circulating
        blasts No signs and symptoms of disease, including progressive splenomegaly

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: Not specified Life
        expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: See Disease Characteristics Hepatic: Not
        specified Renal: Not specified Other: Not pregnant or nursing Fertile patients must use
        effective contraception No history of intolerance to sargramostim (GM-CSF) Must be able to
        perform self injection

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Prior interferon alfa required Chemotherapy:
        Prior hydroxyurea and cytarabine allowed Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy:
        Not specified Surgery: Not specified Other: No other concurrent myelosuppressive drug
        therapy
      
