TITLE:
High-Dose Chemotherapy and Autologous Blood Cell Transplantation in Treating Patients With Primary, Locally Advanced, or Stage IV Breast Cancer

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
amifostine trihydrate

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining chemotherapy with peripheral stem cell
      transplantation may allow the doctor to give higher doses of chemotherapy and kill more
      tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of high-dose mitoxantrone, thiotepa, and
      cyclophosphamide plus autologous peripheral stem cell transplantation and amifostine in
      treating patients with primary, locally advanced, or stage IV breast cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated doses of mitoxantrone and cyclophosphamide
      when administered in combination with thiotepa, autologous blood cells, and amifostine in
      patients with primary, locally advanced, or metastatic breast cancer, and determine whether
      amifostine, a cytoprotection agent, allows administration of high dose chemotherapy. II.
      Determine the dose limiting toxicities of this regimen when administered to patients with
      primary, locally advanced, or metastatic breast cancer. III. Evaluate the toxicities of
      amifostine, a cytoprotection agent, when administered in multiple doses to breast cancer
      patients receiving high dose chemotherapy and autologous blood cell transplantation. IV.
      Document the antitumor efficacy of this regimen versus freedom from recurrence and overall
      survival after autologous blood cell transplantation. V. Assess the contribution of disease,
      treatment, and personal characteristics affecting the quality of life in these patients and
      the patient's primary caregiver.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study. Autologous blood cells are collected after
      completion of neoadjuvant/induction chemotherapy (and salvage mastectomy, if indicated).
      Patients receive IV amifostine, mitoxantrone, and thiotepa on day -7. On day -6, patients
      receive IV amifostine, thiotepa, and cyclophosphamide treatment. On days -5, -4, and -3, IV
      amifostine and cyclophosphamide are administered to participants. Following high dose
      chemotherapy treatment, patients rest on days -2 and -1. On day 0, patients undergo
      autologous blood cell transplantation. Cohorts of 3 patients each receive escalating doses
      of mitoxantrone and cyclophosphamide. If 1 of 3 patients at a given dose level experiences
      dose limiting toxicity (DLT), an additional 3 patients are treated at that dose. If at least
      3 of 6 patients experience DLT at a given dose level, then the maximum tolerated dose is the
      previous dose level. Patients are followed at day 100, then every 6 months for 2 years, then
      annually until death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to 70 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically proven primary, locally advanced (at least 10
        axillary lymph node metastases or T4 or N2, M0 disease), or stage IV breast cancer
        Patients with at least 10 axillary node metastases and no distant metastases receive
        adjuvant chemotherapy with a doxorubicin containing regimen Patients with T4 or N2, M0
        disease and no prior chemotherapy receive neoadjuvant or induction chemotherapy prior to
        salvage mastectomy (patients must show partial remission based on tumor palpation)
        Patients with stage IV breast cancer receive induction chemotherapy with doxorubicin
        (unless relapsed less than 1 year following therapy or metastatic disease progression
        observed or greater than 300 mg/m2 previously taken, then may receive induction
        chemotherapy with paclitaxel regimen) Stage IV cancer patients must have at least a
        partial remission following induction chemotherapy Stage IV cancer patients should have
        minimal metastatic disease (chest wall recurrence or bone only); patients with more
        extensive and/or visceral metastases must have near complete remission following induction
        chemotherapy

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 16 to 70 Performance Status: SWOG 0-1 Karnofsky 80-100% Life
        Expectancy: At least 2 months Hematopoietic: Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm3
        Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin less than 2.0 times upper limit of
        normal (ULN) (unless tumor related) SGOT and SGPT less than 2.0 times ULN (unless tumor
        related) Alkaline phosphatase less than 2.0 times ULN (unless tumor related) Renal:
        Creatinine within institutional normal limits Cardiovascular: Cardiac ventricular ejection
        fraction (MUGA) or echocardiogram within normal limits prior to high dose chemotherapy No
        uncontrolled or severe cardiovascular disease No myocardial infarction within 6 months No
        congestive heart failure No symptomatic angina No life threatening arrhythmias No
        hypertension Pulmonary: Pulmonary function tests greater than 75% predicted normal Room
        air arterial blood gases within normal limits Other: Not HIV positive Not hepatitis B
        surface antigen positive Not hepatitis C antibody positive No serious organ dysfunction
        (unless caused by breast cancer) No active bacterial, viral, or fungal infections No
        active peptic ulcers No uncontrolled diabetes Not pregnant Effective contraceptive method
        must be used during study Negative pregnancy test

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: See Disease Characteristics
      
