TITLE:
Diet and Estrogen Metabolism in Postmenopausal Women

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
fat reduction with increased fiber

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: The amount of dietary fat or fiber may affect estrogen metabolism in
      postmenopausal women, and this may affect the risk of developing cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized dietary intervention to study the effectiveness of a low-fat diet
      combined with either high fiber or low fiber on estrogen metabolism in healthy
      postmenopausal women.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the effect of a low fat diet combined with either high fiber (25-35
      grams per day) or low fiber (10-15 grams per day) intake on estrogen metabolism in healthy
      postmenopausal women.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to one of 2 arms (dietary fat
      reduction with and without increased fiber). All patient must successfully complete a
      dietary run-in phase for 4 weeks before randomization. During the run-in phase, patients are
      asked to maintain a food record for days 7-14. Patients undergo radioisotopic infusion study
      of sex steroid metabolism on days 14, 21, and 28. Patients are given 3 prepackaged meals a
      day for 12 weeks. Patients must maintain a record of all food eaten and return all food
      containers to the center for documentation. Patients undergo radioisotopic infusion study of
      sex steroid metabolism on days 70, 77, and 84. At the end of the 12 weeks, patients meet
      with the dietitian for 30 minutes to receive instructions on maintaining a low fat, high
      fiber diet for the second phase of the study.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 40 women will be accrued over 4 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 50 Years to 69 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Healthy postmenopausal female between the ages of 50 and 69 with
        diet of greater than 32% of total calories from fat and less than 15 grams of fiber

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 50 to 69 Sex: Female Performance status: Not specified Life
        expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic: Not specified Renal: Not
        specified Other: At least 2 years since menopause In general good health Increased body
        fat (125%-175% of ideal body weight) Increased upper body fat (waist-to-hip circumference
        ratio greater than 0.85) Serum estradiol greater than 13 picograms per milliliter

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: No concurrent medication that can interfere with blood test
        results No hormone replacement therapy or thyroid hormones
      
