TITLE:
Irinotecan and Capecitabine in Treating Patients With Solid Tumors

CONDITION:
Cancer

INTERVENTION:
capecitabine

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of irinotecan and capecitabine in treating
      patients who have solid tumors that have not responded to previous treatment.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose and toxic effects of irinotecan and oral
      capecitabine in patients with gastrointestinal or other solid tumors. II. Characterize the
      relationship at the recommended phase II dose between thymidine synthase and thymidine
      phosphorylase expression and tumor response and/or toxic effects in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study. Patients receive oral capecitabine twice daily
      every twelve hours for 14 days, and IV irinotecan over 30 minutes once every 3 weeks
      beginning on day 1. Treatment continues for at least 2 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. The dose of capecitabine and irinotecan is escalated
      in cohorts of 3-6 patients until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is
      defined as the dose at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicity.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 25-30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed solid tumors, including but not limited
        to breast, gastrointestinal, and unknown primary cancer that is refractory to standard
        therapy or for which no standard therapy exists No known bone marrow involvement

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: Karnofsky 60-100% Life
        expectancy: Not specified Hematopoietic: Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm3 OR
        WBC at least 3,500/mm3 AND Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin no
        greater than 1.5 mg/dL No known Gilbert's syndrome No other significant hepatic disease
        requiring medication Renal: Creatinine no greater than 1.5 mg/dL Cardiovascular: No
        significant cardiac disease requiring medication Other: Not pregnant or nursing Fertile
        patients must use effective contraception No other significant medical condition

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: At least 2 weeks since prior colony
        stimulating factor and other cytokines active on bone marrow Chemotherapy: At least 4
        weeks since prior chemotherapy (6 weeks since mitomycin or nitrosoureas) No prior or
        concurrent irinotecan and fluorouracil therapy Endocrine therapy: Not specified
        Radiotherapy: At least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy No concurrent radiotherapy
        Surgery: Recovered from prior major surgery
      
