TITLE:
Cisplatin and Gemcitabine in Treating Patients With Advanced Squamous Cell Cancer of the Head and Neck

CONDITION:
Head and Neck Cancer

INTERVENTION:
cisplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of cisplatin and gemcitabine in
      treating patients with advanced squamous cell cancer of the head and neck that cannot be
      surgically removed.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose limiting toxicity of
      gemcitabine used in combination with cisplatin in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma
      of the head and neck. II. Determine the toxicity profile of this combination treatment in
      these patients. III. Assess the response rate of treatment in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of gemcitabine. Patients receive gemcitabine as an
      IV bolus on day 1 every 2 weeks. Cisplatin is administered on day 1 every 2 weeks. In the
      absence of dose limiting toxicity (DLT) in the first 3 patients treated, subsequent cohorts
      of 3 patients each receive escalating doses of gemcitabine on the same schedule. If 1 of 3
      patients in each cohort experiences DLT, an additional 3 patients are enrolled at that same
      dose level. If 2 of 3 patients experiences DLT in the cohort, then dose escalation ceases
      and the next lower dose is declared the maximum tolerated dose. Patients are assessed for
      response every 2 weeks. Patients may continue treatment for up to 9 months or until disease
      progression.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: At least 3 patients will be accrued for phase I and 20-40 patients will
      be accrued for phase II of this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically proven stage III or IV squamous cell carcinoma of
        the head and neck that is surgically unresectable and not curable by radiation therapy
        Upper aerodigestive tract only Unresectable or recurrent disease following initial therapy
        with surgery and/or radiation Measurable or evaluable disease

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: Over 18 Performance status: SWOG 0-2 Life expectancy: Not
        specified Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than 3 times
        institutional normal Transaminases no greater than 3 times institutional normal Renal:
        Creatinine clearance greater than 40 mL/min Cardiovascular: Adequate cardiac function No
        heart failure Pulmonary: Adequate pulmonary function not requiring supplemental oxygen
        Other: Not pregnant Fertile patients must use adequate contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: Not specified
        Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: Prior radiation therapy allowed Surgery:
        Prior surgery allowed
      
