TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy, Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation, and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Ewing's Sarcoma, Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor, or Rhabdomyosarcoma

CONDITION:
Sarcoma

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining chemotherapy with peripheral stem cell
      transplantation may allow the doctor to give higher doses of chemotherapy drugs and kill
      more tumor cells. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy, peripheral
      stem cell transplantation, and radiation therapy in treating patients with recurrent
      metastatic Ewing's sarcoma, peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor, or rhabdomyosarcoma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Estimate the maximum tolerated dose of total bone marrow irradiation (TMI)
      that can be administered as planned consolidation utilizing autologous peripheral blood stem
      cell support following local radiotherapy (if indicated) and prior busulfan, melphalan, and
      thiotepa. II. Examine the efficacy of this dual transplant approach for high-risk patients
      with Ewing's sarcoma, peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor, or rhabdomyosarcoma in
      first complete remission or greater.

      OUTLINE: This is a two part, radiation dose escalation study. Peripheral blood stem cells
      (PBSC) are collected after 5-6 daily injections of G-CSF. The PBSC are infused in two
      halves. One half is given after chemotherapy and the other half after total marrow
      irradiation (TMI). Transplant #1 (part one) consists of chemotherapy and PBSC infusion.
      Busulfan (BU) is administered orally every 6 hours for 3 days for a total of 12 doses on
      days -8, -7 and -6. Melphalan is intravenously infused over 30 minutes for 2 days on days -5
      and -4. Thiotepa is intravenously infused over 2 hours on days -3 and -2. PBSC are infused
      on day 0, 36-48 hours after completion of chemotherapy. Patients are considered for local
      irradiation therapy between transplant #1 and #2 if tissue limiting irradiation doses to
      bulk tumor site have not previously been administered. The local irradiation is given
      immediately prior to TMI administration. Transplant #2 starts sometime between day 60 and
      120 after transplant #1. For transplant #2, cohorts of 4 patients are treated with TMI twice
      a day for 5 days at initial dose level on days -5 through -1. TMI is administered over 30-40
      minutes. The second half of the PBSC is infused 1-24 hours following the last dose of TMI.
      After treatment of at least 4 patients at the initial TMI dose level, dose levels escalate
      in the absence of toxicity. If there is no dose limiting toxicity (DLT) in the current group
      of 4 patients, the next cohort is treated at the next higher dose level. If 1 of the 4
      patients experiences DLT, the next cohort is treated at the same dose. If 1 DLT is seen
      among 8 patients treated at a dose, then the next cohort is treated at the next higher dose
      level. If 2 patients out of 8 experience DLT, this dose is identified as the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD). If 1 out of 4 or 3 out 8 patients experience DLT at a dose level, the
      next lower dose level is identified as the MTD. Each patient in a cohort is observed for a
      minimum of 28 days prior to escalation to the higher dose level. Tumor restaging occurs
      approximately 9 months after initial transplant, then at 12 months and annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: An expected 12-16 patients are required to complete this study. Accrual
      should last 3-4 years at 4-5 patients per year.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 49 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed recurrent metastatic Ewing's sarcoma,
        peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) or Clinical Group IV rhabdomyosarcoma
        Complete remission or very good partial remission (at least 50% reduction in measurable
        tumor burden) following initial chemotherapy with or without surgery No primary CNS PNET

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: Under 50 Performance status: Karnofsky 70-100% Life
        expectancy: Greater than 3 months Hematopoietic: Granulocyte count at least 1,000/mm3
        Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin less than 2.0 mg/dL Renal:
        Creatinine clearance greater than 50% of normal Pulmonary: LVEF greater than 41% Other:
        HIV negative Not pregnant

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: See Disease
        Characteristics Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: No prior dose limiting
        irradiation to any organ site Surgery: See Disease Characteristics
      
