TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Refractory or Recurrent Solid Tumors

CONDITION:
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific

INTERVENTION:
alvocidib

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy with
      paclitaxel and cisplatin plus flavopiridol in treating patients who have refractory or
      recurrent solid tumors.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of flavopiridol when administered in
      combination with paclitaxel and cisplatin in patients with refractory adult solid tumors.
      II. Investigate the clinical pharmacokinetics of intravenous flavopiridol when administered
      in combination with paclitaxel in these patients. III. Obtain preliminary data on the
      therapeutic activity of flavopiridol when administered in combination with paclitaxel in
      these patients. IV. Evaluate surrogate markers of activity such as inhibition of PKC or CDK1
      in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open label, dose escalation study. Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3
      hours on day 1. On day 2, patients receive cisplatin IV over 20 minutes followed by a 24
      hour infusion of flavopiridol. Courses are repeated every 21 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Sequential dose escalation of flavopiridol is followed
      by sequential dose escalation of cisplatin. Dose escalation in cohorts of 3-6 patients each
      continues until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the
      dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicity. Patients are
      followed every 6 weeks.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 46-73 patients will be accrued for this study within 6 more
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically proven solid tumors that are refractory or
        recurrent -No CNS primary or metastatic disease

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance Status: Karnofsky at least 60%
        Hematopoietic: WBC at least 3,500/mm3 Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm3
        Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 mg/dL AST and
        ALT no greater than 2.5 times upper limit of normal Renal: Creatinine no greater than 1.5
        mg/dL Cardiovascular: At least 6 months since prior cardiac arrhythmias, myocardial
        infarction, or congestive heart failure Other: Not pregnant or nursing Effective
        contraceptive method must be used for 2 months after study completion Not HIV positive No
        uncontrolled or serious infection No pre-existing grade 3 or greater neurotoxicity Must be
        mentally capable of understanding the explanation of the study

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: At least 4 weeks since prior immunotherapy
        Chemotherapy: At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy (6 weeks for nitrosoureas or
        mitomycin) Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: At least 4 weeks since prior
        radiotherapy Surgery: Not specified Other: No presence of toxic effects from prior therapy
      
