TITLE:
Bryostatin 1 in Treating Patients With Myelodysplastic Syndrome

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
bryostatin 1

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of bryostatin 1 in treating patients with
      myelodysplastic syndrome.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the response rate of bryostatin 1 in patients with myelodysplastic
      syndrome. II. Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxic effects of bryostatin 1. III.
      Determine the duration of response and survival of patients receiving this therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a two stage study. Patients receive bryostatin 1 by continuous infusion
      over 72 hours every 14 days for 4 cycles. Responding patients may continue treatment in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with complete response
      receive 2 additional cycles. Patients with no response receive 4 additional cycles. Patients
      are re-evaluated after every 4 cycles.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 14 to 27 patients will be accrued within 2 years into this 2 stage study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically diagnosed refractory anemia, refractory anemia
        with excess blasts, refractory anemia with excess blasts in transformation, refractory
        anemia with ringed sideroblasts, or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia with significant
        cytopenias of at least 4 weeks duration No more than 1 prior treatment for disease Not
        eligible for allogeneic bone marrow transplantation if less than 60 years of age

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: Zubrod 0-2 Life expectancy:
        At least 12 weeks Hematopoietic: Hematocrit less than 26% (or requiring transfusion) for
        at least 4 weeks Absolute neutrophil count less than 1000/mm3 for at least 4 weeks
        Platelet count less than 50/mm3 for at least 4 weeks Hepatic: Bilirubin less than 1.5
        mg/dL Transaminase less than 2.5 times upper limit of normal Renal: Creatinine less than
        1.5 mg/dL Creatinine clearance of at least 60 mL/min Other: Not pregnant or lactating
        Fertile patients must use effective contraception while on study and for 100 days
        afterwards No uncontrolled or life-threatening infection

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: No concurrent immunotherapy No concurrent
        treatment with growth factors Chemotherapy: At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy (8
        weeks for mitomycin or nitrosourea) and recovered Endocrine therapy: No concurrent use of
        steroids Radiotherapy: At least 4 weeks since prior radiation therapy and recovered
        Surgery: Not specified
      
