TITLE:
Marimastat Following Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Small Cell Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Lung Cancer

INTERVENTION:
marimastat

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Marimastat may stop the growth of lung cancer by stopping blood flow to the
      tumor. It is not yet known if marimastat is an effective treatment for small cell lung
      cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of marimastat with a
      placebo following chemotherapy in treating patients who have small cell lung cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine whether treatment with the oral matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor
      (MMPI) marimastat prolongs overall survival and time to progression in patients with small
      cell lung cancer who have achieved complete or partial remission after first line
      chemotherapy, with or without radiotherapy. II. Determine the tolerability and toxicity of
      prolonged administration of marimastat in patients with small cell lung cancer. III.
      Determine the effect of prolonged administration of marimastat on the quality of life of
      patients with small cell lung cancer.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double blind, multicenter, placebo controlled study. Patients
      are stratified by stage of disease at diagnosis, response to prior
      chemotherapy/radiotherapy, type of thoracic radiotherapy, and cooperative group. Patients
      are randomized into two groups. Half of the patients take marimastat orally twice a day
      (breakfast and evening meal); the other half take placebo orally twice a day (breakfast and
      evening meal). Treatment continues for 2 years or until documented disease recurrence or
      progression and institution of further anticancer treatment, occurrence of unacceptable
      toxicity, initiation of anticoagulant treatment, or development of intercurrent illness. All
      patients are followed every 6 months until death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: The planned sample size is 360, with an equal number of patients in both
      arms, accrued at a rate of 240 responders per year (resulting in an accrual period of
      approximately 1.5 years). The total duration of the study is estimated as 2.3 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically or cytologically proven small cell lung cancer
        Complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) following first line chemotherapy required
        Chest x-ray showing CR or PR required. No documented prior brain metastases

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 16 and over Performance status: ECOG 0-2 Life expectancy: At
        least 12 weeks Hematopoietic: Not specified Hepatic: Not specified Renal: Not specified
        Other: Not pregnant or nursing Effective contraception use by men or women of reproductive
        potential No prior malignancies within 5 years except: Adequately treated nonmelanomatous
        skin cancer Adequately treated carcinoma in situ of the cervix No other concurrent
        malignancies No prior diagnosis of breast cancer, melanoma, or hypernephroma No major
        medical illness that would preclude prolonged administration of marimastat or required
        follow up No active peptic ulceration or symptoms suggestive of this diagnosis No grade 3
        or 4 musculoskeletal disorders

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: One prior
        induction combination chemotherapy regimen required Must be completed prior to
        randomization Hematologically recovered before randomization Minimum of 4 cycles required
        No change in regimen due to progression No chemotherapy within 28 days prior to
        randomization if thoracic radiation is given prior to or concurrent with chemotherapy No
        prior marimastat Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: Prior radiotherapy allowed
        Must be completed prior to randomization Last dose of radiation treatment must be within
        7-14 days prior to randomization if thoracic radiation and/or prophylactic cranial
        irradiation is given after completion of chemotherapy If severe esophagitis precludes
        administration of oral medication, randomization may be within 21 days after radiation
        therapy Surgery: No surgery within 2 weeks prior to randomization Prior complete resection
        of tumor allowed Other: No other investigational agents within 4 weeks prior to study, and
        none planned No concurrent coumarin anticoagulants and no coumarin anticoagulants within 4
        weeks prior to randomization No concurrent antitumor treatment
      
