TITLE:
Rituximab in Treating Patients With Hodgkin's Lymphoma

CONDITION:
Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
Rituximab

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies such as rituximab can locate tumor cells and either kill
      them or deliver tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of rituximab in treating patients who
      have Hodgkin's lymphoma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the partial and complete response rates in patients with untreated or
           recurrent/refractory lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with rituximab.

        -  Determine the efficacy of this regimen in terms of duration of disease free survival
           and time to progression in this patient population.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive rituximab IV over several hours once a week for 4 weeks followed
      by maintenance rituximab at 6, 12, and 18 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study within
      approximately 18 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 3 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:- Patients must have lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin's disease that is
        of B-cell lineage and expresses the CD 20 antigen. Patients are eligible with either
        untreated disease or refractory/relapsed disease.

          -  Patients must be >= 3 years.

          -  Patients must have a performance status of 0-2.

          -  Patients must have an ANC > 1500/ml and a platelet count > 50,000/ml.

          -  A biopsy or fine needle aspirate sample must show expression of the CD20 antigen on
             the L adnH cells.

          -  Patients must have measurable disease (at least one tumor mass measuring >1.0 cm in
             largest dimension).

          -  Patients must have no evidence of active infection.

          -  Patients must read and sign IRB approved informed consent.

          -  Adequate renal function as indicated by serum creatinine (Cr) < 1.5X the upper limit
             of normal.

          -  Adequate liver function as indicated by alkaline phosphatase, bilirubin, AST, and ALT
             < 2X upper limit of normal unless related to primary disease.

          -  Patients at high risk of HBV infection should be screened prior to enrollment.

        Exclusion Criteria:- Concomitant or recent treatment with radiotherapy or chemotherapy.
        Four weeks must pass from radiotherapy or cytotoxic therapy to enroll (six weeks for
        nitrosourea compounds).

          -  Major surgery, other than diagnostic surgery, within 4 weeks.

          -  Female patients must be of non-childbearing potential or using adequate contraception
             with a negative pregnancy test at study entry.

          -  Serious non-malignant disease (e.g., congestive heart failure, or active uncontrolled
             bacterial, viral, or fungal infections), or other conditions which, in the opinion of
             the investigator and/or sponsor, would compromise other protocol objectives.

          -  Treatment with an investigational drug within 30 days or 5 half-lives (of the study
             drug with the longest half-life) prior to entry into the study, whichever is longer.

          -  Evidence of other active malignancies other than cured carcinomas in situ of the
             cervix or basal cell carcinoma of the skin.

          -  Life expectancy<= 12 weeks.

          -  Concurrent treatment with prednisone or other systemic steroid medication.

          -  Active HBV infection or hepatitis.
      
