TITLE:
Antineoplaston Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage IV Bladder Cancer or Stage IV Newly Diagnosed, Incurable Bladder Cancer

CONDITION:
Bladder Cancer

INTERVENTION:
antineoplaston A10

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Antineoplastons are naturally-occurring substances that may also be made in the
      laboratory. Antineoplastons may inhibit the growth of cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well antineoplaston therapy work in treating
      patients with stage IV bladder cancer or newly diagnosed stage IV bladder cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety and possible effectiveness of antineoplastons A10 and AS2-1 in
           patients with stage IV bladder carcinoma or stage IV newly diagnosed, incurable bladder
           carcinoma.

        -  Describe response to, tolerance to, and side effects of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label study.

      Patients receive gradually escalating doses of antineoplaston A10 and antineoplaston AS2-1
      by intravenous injection over a minimum of 1 hour 6 times daily until the maximum tolerated
      dose is reached.

      Treatment continues for at least 3 months in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease
      progression. Patients achieving complete response (CR) continue treatment for an additional
      8 months after reaching CR.

      X-rays or scans are performed every 2 months for 1 year and then every 3 months for the
      second year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20-40 patients will be accrued into this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed stage IV bladder carcinoma that is unlikely to respond to
             existing therapy and for which no curative therapy exists or stage IV newly
             diagnosed, incurable bladder carcinoma

          -  Measurable disease by MRI or CT scan

          -  Tumor must be greater than 2 cm at the largest diameter for the lymph nodes located
             in the head, neck, axillary, inguinal, or femoral areas and at least 0.5 cm in the
             largest diameter for other localizations

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  Karnofsky 60-100%

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 2 months

        Hematopoietic:

          -  WBC at least 2,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 50,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 2.5 mg/dL

          -  SGOT/SGPT no greater than 5 times upper limit of normal

          -  No hepatic failure

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2.5 mg/dL

          -  No history of renal conditions that contraindicate high dosages of sodium

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No severe heart disease

          -  No uncontrolled hypertension

          -  No history of congestive heart failure

          -  No history of other cardiovascular conditions that contraindicate high dosages of
             sodium

        Pulmonary:

          -  No severe lung disease

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception during and for 4 weeks after study
             participation

          -  No serious active infections or fever

          -  No other serious concurrent disease

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior immunotherapy and recovered

          -  No concurrent immunomodulating agents

        Chemotherapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy (6 weeks for nitrosoureas) and recovered

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Concurrent corticosteroids allowed

        Radiotherapy:

          -  At least 8 weeks since prior radiotherapy and recovered

        Surgery:

          -  Recovered from any prior operative procedure

        Other:

          -  No prior antineoplaston therapy

          -  Prior cytodifferentiating agent allowed
      
