TITLE:
Tipifarnib Plus Radiation Therapy After Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Stage III Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Lung Cancer

INTERVENTION:
carboplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Tipifarnib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes
      needed for cell growth and by making tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy.
      Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy,
      such as carboplatin and paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells
      either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing and may also make tumor cells
      more sensitive to radiation therapy.

      PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of tipifarnib when
      given together with radiation therapy after combination chemotherapy in treating patients
      with stage III non-small cell lung cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose-limiting toxicity of tipifarnib given
           concurrently with radiotherapy after induction chemotherapy comprising paclitaxel and
           carboplatin and followed by maintenance therapy with tipifarnib in patients with stage
           IIIA or IIIB non-small cell lung cancer.

        -  Determine the tumor response at 3 months in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is multicenter, dose-escalation study of tipifarnib.

      Patients receive induction chemotherapy comprising carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1
      and paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2
      courses.

      Beginning 4-6 weeks after the completion of induction chemotherapy, patients receive oral
      tipifarnib twice daily for 7 weeks. Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week
      for 7 weeks beginning 3 days after the start of tipifarnib. After completion of
      radiotherapy, patients receive oral tipifarnib twice daily for 4 days and then once daily
      for 4 days.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of tipifarnib while receiving radiotherapy
      until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose
      preceding that at which at least 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting
      toxicity.

      Beginning 4-6 weeks after the completion of radiotherapy and tipifarnib, patients receive
      maintenance therapy comprising oral tipifarnib twice daily on days 1-21. Maintenance therapy
      repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed at 3, 6, and 12 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 9-12 patients will be accrued for this study within 1 year.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed non-small cell lung cancer

               -  Locally advanced (stage IIIA or IIIB) disease requiring radiotherapy

          -  No malignant pleural effusion

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  WBC at least 3,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 mg/dL

          -  No grade 2 or greater elevation of liver function tests

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 times normal

        Pulmonary:

          -  FEV_1 at least 600 cc

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  HIV negative

          -  No grade 3 or 4 peripheral neuropathy

          -  No known allergy to imidazole drugs (e.g., ketoconazole, miconazole, econazole, or
             terconazole)

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  Up to 2 prior or concurrent carboplatin and paclitaxel chemotherapy regimens allowed

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No prior thoracic radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  At least 3 weeks since prior exploratory thoracotomy
      
