TITLE:
Chemotherapy Plus Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation Compared With Chemotherapy Alone in Treating Women With Stage IV Breast Cancer

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Peripheral stem cell transplantation may allow the doctor to
      give higher doses of chemotherapy drugs and kill more tumor cells. It is not yet known if
      chemotherapy followed by peripheral stem cell transplantation is more effective than
      chemotherapy alone in treating metastatic breast cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase II trial to compare the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy
      plus peripheral stem cell transplantation with that of chemotherapy alone in treating women
      who have stage IV breast cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the efficacy of multi-course high-dose chemotherapy with autologous
      peripheral blood stem cell transplantation versus standard-dose chemotherapy in women with
      metastatic breast cancer. II. Compare the five year event-free survival, in terms of time to
      progression or time to death due to toxic effects, in patients treated with these regimens.
      III. Compare the response rate and overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.
      IV. Compare the toxicity of these regimens in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to one of two
      treatment arms. Arm I: Patients receive docetaxel and doxorubicin once followed by
      filgrastim (G-CSF) daily for approximately 1 week. Treatment repeats approximately every 3
      weeks for 4 courses. Patients then receive cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil
      on days 7 and 8 every 4 weeks for 4 courses. Arm II: Patients receive docetaxel,
      doxorubicin, and G-CSF as in arm I for 3 courses. Patients undergo leukapheresis daily for 3
      or 4 days. Patients then receive 1 course of ifosfamide, etoposide, and carboplatin daily
      for 4 days when blood counts recover, followed by 1 course of cyclophosphamide and thiotepa
      daily for 4 days. Patients undergo peripheral blood stem cell reinfusion following each
      course.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 264 patients (132 per arm) will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to 59 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed stage IV breast carcinoma Bone
        metastasis as only form of metastatic disease allowed No evidence of bone marrow
        involvement by aspirate or biopsy No brain metastases Hormone receptor status: Not
        specified

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 to 59 Sex: Female Menopausal status: Not specified
        Performance status: Karnofsky 80-100% Life expectancy: More than 3 months Hematopoietic:
        Absolute neutrophil count greater than 1,500/mm3 Platelet count greater than 100,000/mm3
        Hemoglobin greater than 9 g/dL PT normal Activated PTT normal Hepatic: Bilirubin normal
        (unless benign congenital hyperbilirubinemia is present) No AST/ALT greater than 1.5 times
        upper limit of normal (ULN) together with alkaline phosphatase greater than 2.5 times ULN
        No active hepatitis B or C Renal: Creatinine normal Cardiovascular: Ejection fraction
        normal by MUGA or echocardiogram No active heart disease No prior myocardial infarction or
        other manifestation of coronary artery disease Other: More than 1,000 calories/day oral
        intake HIV negative No active serious medical or psychiatric disease No other prior or
        concurrent malignancy except basal cell skin cancer or carcinoma in situ of the cervix No
        allergy to polysorbate 80 or E. coli-derived products No peripheral neuropathy greater
        than grade 2 Not pregnant Negative pregnancy test

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: No prior
        chemotherapy for metastatic disease No prior mitomycin, nitrosoureas, or platinum
        coordination complexes Prior adjuvant chemotherapy allowed if completed more than 6 months
        prior to relapse with metastases No more than 300 mg/m2 prior doxorubicin or 450 mg/m2
        prior epirubicin Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: No prior radiotherapy to
        the brain or marrow-bearing pelvis Prior radiotherapy to lower pelvis allowed if the upper
        border of the radiotherapy field is below the upper border of the acetabulum No other
        prior radiotherapy to the pelvis Surgery: At least 2 weeks since prior major surgery
        Other: No other concurrent anti-cancer therapy
      
