TITLE:
Gemcitabine Alone or in Combination With Other Chemotherapy Drugs in Treating Patients With Metastatic Cancer of the Pancreas

CONDITION:
Pancreatic Cancer

INTERVENTION:
cisplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. It is not yet known if gemcitabine is more effective when given
      alone or in combination with another chemotherapy drug in treating cancer of the pancreas.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase II trial to compare the effectiveness of gemcitabine given alone
      or in combination with other chemotherapy drugs in treating patients who have metastatic
      cancer of the pancreas.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival rate of patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer treated
           with gemcitabine alone vs with cisplatin vs with docetaxel vs with irinotecan.

        -  Compare the time to disease progression in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the CA 19-9 biomarker response in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Correlate the CA 19-9 biomarker response with survival in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the response in patients with measurable disease treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to one of four
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 followed by
           cisplatin IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for at
           least 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 150 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15.
           Treatment repeats every 28 days for at least 2 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes followed by docetaxel IV over
           60 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 3 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm IV: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes followed by irinotecan IV over
           90 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 3 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 240 patients (60 per arm) will be accrued for this study
      within 30 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the pancreas

          -  Metastatic disease by CT scan

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  CTC 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 mg/dL

          -  SGOT no greater than 2.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  Alkaline phosphatase less than 2.5 times ULN if SGOT greater than 1.5 times ULN

          -  Alkaline phosphatase any value if SGOT less than 1.5 times ULN

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 mg/dL

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception during and for 3 months after study

          -  No other currently active malignancy (completed therapy and considered to be at less
             than 30% risk of relapse) except non-melanoma skin cancer

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior chemotherapy except fluorouracil (5-FU)

          -  At least 2 weeks since prior 5-FU

          -  No other concurrent chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  No concurrent hormonal therapy except steroids for adrenal failure, hormonal therapy
             for non-disease related conditions (e.g., insulin for diabetes), or intermittent use
             of dexamethasone as an antiemetic

        Radiotherapy:

          -  At least 2 weeks since prior radiotherapy

          -  No concurrent palliative radiotherapy except whole-brain irradiation for CNS disease
      
