TITLE:
Bicalutamide and Goserelin in Treating Patients With Cancer of the Ovary, Fallopian Tube, or Peritoneum

CONDITION:
Fallopian Tube Cancer

INTERVENTION:
bicalutamide

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Some tumors need growth factors produced by the body's white blood cells to keep
      growing. Goserelin may interfere with the growth factor and may stop the tumor from growing.
      Bicalutamide may prevent androgens from stimulating the growth of cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of goserelin plus bicalutamide in
      treating patients who have refractory or recurrent cancer of the ovary, fallopian tube, or
      peritoneum.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the time-to-treatment failure in patients with ovarian epithelial,
      fallopian tube, or peritoneal carcinoma, in second or greater remission, treated with
      bicalutamide and goserelin. II. Assess luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone
      suppression in correlation with serum vascular endothelial growth factor levels, and
      determine if these levels are related to time to treatment failure in these patients. III.
      Correlate the presence or absence of androgen receptor tissue expression by
      immunohistochemistry and androgen receptor gene trinucleotide repeat length to time to
      treatment failure in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive oral bicalutamide once daily and goserelin subcutaneously once
      every 4 weeks. Treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity until disease
      recurrence.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 35 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed epithelial carcinoma arising in the
        ovary, fallopian tube, or peritoneum, in second or greater remission Failed initial
        therapy with persistent or recurrent disease Cytoreductive surgery AND At least 1
        platinum-based chemotherapy regimen No evidence of disease within 4 months of salvage
        chemotherapy CA-125 less than 35 U Negative physical exam No abdominal or pelvic disease
        by CT

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: Adult Performance status: Karnofsky 60-100% Life expectancy:
        Not specified Hematopoietic: Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,000/mm3 Platelet count
        at least 100,000/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin less than 2 times upper limit of normal (ULN) SGOT
        less than 2 times ULN Alkaline phosphatase less than 2 times ULN Renal: Not specified
        Other: No other active invasive malignancy No inability to receive subcutaneous injection
        No inability to tolerate oral medication

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: See Disease
        Characteristics Endocrine therapy: Not specified Radiotherapy: Not specified Surgery: See
        Disease Characteristics Other: No concurrent oral anticoagulants
      
