TITLE:
Lymphoscintigraphy to Detect Early Metastases in Patients With Cancer of the Mouth or Throat

CONDITION:
Head and Neck Cancer

INTERVENTION:
isosulfan blue

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: New imaging procedures such as lymphoscintigraphy may improve the ability to
      detect the spread of mouth and throat cancer to lymph nodes in the neck.

      PURPOSE: Pilot study of lymphoscintigraphy followed by sentinel lymph node mapping and
      sentinel lymph node biopsy to detect lymph node metastases in the neck in patients who have
      mouth or throat cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Evaluate the sensitivity of lymphoscintigraphy and isosulfan blue in localization of
           sentinel lymph nodes in patients with previously untreated squamous cell carcinoma of
           the oral cavity or oropharynx.

        -  Determine evidence of micrometastases in histologically normal sentinel lymph nodes
           resected from these patients.

        -  Assess the clinical significance of micrometastases in lymph nodes resected from these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients undergo preoperative lymphoscintigraphy utilizing technetium Tc 99m sulfur
      colloid followed by intraoperative injections of isosulfan blue at 3-4 locations into the
      primary tumor periphery. Once the afferent lymphatic channel and sentinel node have been
      identified, patients undergo cervical lymphadenectomy followed by resection of the primary
      tumor.

      Resected primary tumor, radioactive lymph nodes, and blue-stained sentinel nodes are then
      subjected to molecular (polymerase chain reaction) and histocytochemical
      (immunohistochemistry for cytokeratin and micrometastases, light microscopy) analyses.

      Patients are followed at 1, 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 25 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed primary squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity or
             oropharynx

               -  Stage 0-IVA (Any T, N0)

          -  No low-risk tumors

          -  Must require elective staging neck dissection and resection of primary tumor

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 to 70

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  No concurrent impaired mental status

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No prior radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No prior surgery
      
