TITLE:
Radiolabeled Monoclonal Antibody in Treating Patients With Previously Treated Large Cell Lymphoma

CONDITION:
Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody Lym-1

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies can locate tumor cells and deliver
      tumor-killing substances such as radioactive iodine to them without harming normal cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies in
      treating patients who have large cell lymphoma that has been previously treated.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody Lym-1 in
           patients with previously treated diffuse large cell lymphoma.

        -  Determine the safety of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the response of patients to this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study.

      Patients receive unlabeled monoclonal antibody Lym-1 IV over 40 minutes followed 15-30
      minutes later by iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody Lym-1 IV over 2 minutes.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody Lym-1
      until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose
      preceding that at which at least 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting
      toxicity.

      Patients are followed weekly for 8 weeks and then every 3 months for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 8-36 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

          -  Histologic diagnosis of B-cell diffuse large cell lymphoma (REAL classification
             system) confirmed by an independent central pathology reviewer.

          -  The tumor's B-cell phenotype will be confirmed by positive L-26 (CD20).

          -  Previous treatment with 2 common combination chemotherapy regimens. Patients
             previously treated with unlabeled monoclonal antibody therapy are eligible.

          -  Men or women at least 18 years of age.

          -  Karnofsky Performance Score (KPS) estimated to be > 60 at the time of the scheduled
             therapeutic dose of 131I-Lym-1.

          -  Life expectancy estimated to be at least 3 months from the time of the therapeutic
             dose of 131I Lym-1.

          -  Measurable disease demonstrable by physical examination or computerized tomography
             (CT).

          -  CT scan evidence of at least one indicator lesion with at least one diameter that
             measures > 2 cm. (The CT scan should be done within 2 weeks of the imaging study.)

        Exclusion Criteria

          -  Inability or unwillingness to comply with the following:

          -  Bone marrow biopsy

          -  Return for follow-up visits

          -  Remaining motionless for extended periods of time for imaging procedures

          -  Serial blood/urine sampling (for dosimetry patients only)

          -  Pregnancy (Women of childbearing potential must be practicing an effective method of
             contraception.)

          -  Presence of a second malignancy except for basal cell skin carcinoma or carcinoma
             in-situ of the cervix

          -  Presence of active lymphomatous meningitis or other CNS involvement with lymphoma.

          -  HIV positive patients.

          -  Prior total body irradiation, or a course of prior radiation > 3,000 cGy delivered to
             > 20% of the central marrow or the lumbar vertebrae within 6 months of screening.

          -  Serum creatinine or total bilirubin > 2 x the upper limit of normal.

          -  Aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or alkaline
             phosphatase > 3 x the upper limit of normal.

          -  Significant marrow lymphoma (defined as lymphoma cells constituting greater than 20%
             of the hematopoietic marrow elements from an iliac crest biopsy). A prior bone marrow
             biopsy is acceptable if it meets the following criteria:

          -  If there is prior bone marrow involvement, the biopsy must be performed within 45
             days of screening.

          -  If there is no prior bone marrow involvement, the biopsy must be performed within 90
             days of screening

          -  WBC count < 3,500/mm3, granulocyte count < 1,500/mm3, or platelet count <
             125,000/mm3.

          -  Positive human anti-mouse antibodies (HAMA) serum values, defined as > 74 ng/mL at
             screening.

          -  Patients who have not recovered from toxicities of most recent anti-lymphoma therapy.

          -  Treatment with:

          -  Colony stimulating factor G-CSF or GM-CSF within 120 hours of screening laboratory
             assessment.

          -  Erythropoietin (EPO) within a month of screening laboratory assessment

          -  Whole blood or platelet transfusion within 120 hours of screening laboratory
             assessment

          -  History or electrocardiographic (ECG) evidence of Q-wave myocardial infarction within
             6 months of screening or congestive heart failure (CHF; NYHA Stage III or IV).

          -  Known hypersensitivity to iodine or iodine-containing organic substances.

          -  Patients who require therapy with anticoagulants or antiplatelet drugs which cannot
             be discontinued during the study.

          -  Patients who are known to have antiplatelet antibodies.
      
