TITLE:
Genasense (Oblimersen Sodium), Fludarabine, and Rituximab in Subjects With Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia

CONDITION:
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
Oblimersen-rituximab-fludarabine

SUMMARY:

      The treatment combination of Rituxan (rituximab) and fludarabine has previously been
      reported to produce a high percentage of responses with less toxicity than other combination
      treatments. However, some leukemia subjects continue to have leukemia despite treatment with
      these standard anticancer drug therapies, or they may work for only a short period of time.
      In some subjects, when the leukemia does not respond well to therapy the leukemia cells may
      be over-producing one or more proteins. One of these proteins is called Bcl-2. Bcl-2 is a
      protein that appears to protect cancer cells from being killed and thus lengthens the life
      of the cancer cells. Genasense (oblimersen sodium) is a compound that blocks production of
      the Bcl-2 protein. By first lowering levels of Bcl-2, it is possible that chemotherapy drugs
      may work more effectively as a cancer treatment. Genasense may also directly kill CLL
      cells. This study will test whether treating subjects with Genasense, fludarabine and
      rituximab is safe and effective.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Key Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Absolute lymphocyte count of > 10,000 cells/mm3 or history of ALC >10,000 cell/mm3

          -  Platelets > 50,000 cells/mm3

          -  Tumor lymphocytes expressing surface CD5, CD19, CD20 and CD23

          -  Creatinine < 1.5 mg.dL

        Key Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Less than 3 weeks from any prior major surgery or other therapy for CLL including
             radiation therapy, chemotherapy, high-dose steroid therapy, immunotherapy, cytokine,
             biologic or vaccine therapy.

          -  History of autoimmune hemolytic anemia

          -  Prior allogeneic transplant
      
