TITLE:
Soy Isoflavones in Treating Patients Who Are Undergoing Radical Prostatectomy for Stage I or Stage II Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
soy isoflavones

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Chemoprevention therapy is the use of certain drugs to try to prevent or delay
      the development of early cancer. Soy isoflavones may be effective in delaying the
      development of early prostate cancer.

      PURPOSE: This randomized phase II trial is studying different regimens of soy isoflavones to
      compare how well they work in treating patients who are undergoing radical prostatectomy for
      stage I or stage II prostate cancer (adenocarcinoma).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare blood/prostate biomarkers of oxidative stress and prostate cancer risk in
           patients with stage I or II adenocarcinoma of the prostate treated with 3 different
           dose levels of soy isoflavones before radical prostatectomy.

        -  Compare prostatic tissue biomarkers of proliferation and apoptosis in patients treated
           with these regimens.

        -  Determine the potential response, in terms of tumor and prostatic intraepithelial
           neoplasia grade and volume, extraprostatic extension, and serum prostate-specific
           antigen level, in patients treated with soy isoflavones and in those treated with
           placebo.

        -  Determine the safety of soy isoflavone supplementation in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study.
      Patients are stratified according to tumor stage (T1c vs T2). Patients are randomized to 1
      of 4 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (control group): Patients receive oral placebo once daily.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral soy isoflavones and oral placebo once daily.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive a higher dose of oral soy isoflavones and oral placebo once
           daily.

        -  Arm IV: Patients receive a higher dose (higher than arm III) of oral soy isoflavones
           once daily.

      In all arms, treatment continues for 2-6 weeks (depending on the time from study entry to
      planned surgery) in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. All patients then undergo radical
      prostatectomy.

      Patients are followed at 1 week.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100 patients (25 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 12.5 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the prostate

               -  Stage T1c or T2

               -  Disease confined to the prostate gland

          -  Planning to undergo radical prostatectomy within the next 3-4 weeks

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic

          -  ALT and AST less than 2 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  Alkaline phosphatase less than 2 times ULN

        Renal

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  Fertile patients must use effective barrier contraception

          -  Medically cleared for surgery

          -  No concurrent thyroid disease

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  No prior biological therapy for prostate cancer

          -  No concurrent biological agents

        Chemotherapy

          -  No prior chemotherapy for prostate cancer

          -  No concurrent chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy

          -  No prior hormonal therapy for prostate cancer

          -  No concurrent thyroid hormone replacement medication

          -  No concurrent hormonal therapy

        Radiotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Surgery

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Other

          -  At least 3 months since prior high-dose nutritional supplements

          -  No concurrent regular use (more than once weekly) of soy products greater than 50 g
             of soy protein or 50 mg of soy isoflavone

          -  No concurrent high-dose nutritional supplements

               -  Standard-dose single multivitamin tablet (e.g., Centrum) allowed

          -  No concurrent herbs

          -  No concurrent soy foods

          -  No other concurrent isoflavone supplements

          -  No other concurrent antineoplastic agents
      
