TITLE:
Assessment of Chronic Guillain-Barre Syndrome Improvement With Use of 4-aminopyridine

CONDITION:
Guillain-Barre Syndrome

INTERVENTION:
4-aminopyridine (4-AP)

SUMMARY:

      In developed countries, Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS) is the most common cause of acute
      neuromuscular paralysis, afflicting about 5,000 persons annually in the United States. Over
      20% of GBS patients have permanent residual motor deficits that affect their activities of
      daily living.

      The goal of this study is to assess the potential usefulness and safety of 4-aminopyridine
      (4-AP) in those patients who suffer chronic functional deficits from GBS.This medication is
      a potassium channel blocker that has the potential to improve nerve conduction, particularly
      across partially demyelinated axons. It is felt that by increasing nerve conduction there
      will be improved motor performance for walking and activities of daily living, as well as
      decreased fatiguability. This medication has demonstrated potential usefulness in central
      demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis.Because the peripheral nervous system is
      much more accessible to systemic medication delivery it is felt that this medication may
      improve the functional status of those patients who are suffering from the residual side
      effects of this medication.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Objective.- To determine the safety and efficacy of orally delivered 4-aminopyridine for
      motor weakness due to Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS) under a FDA approved protocol (IND No:
      58,029).

      Setting.- Tertiary care outpatient rehabilitation center directly attached to a university
      hospital.

      Subjects.- Subjects who are unable to ambulate more than 200 feet without assistive devices
      and have residual nonprogressive motor weakness due to GBS more than one year out from the
      initial episode.

      Design.- Subjects will be randomized to a double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over
      design, which had two eight-week treatment arms with a three-week washout. The average
      dosage at 4 weeks will be 30 milligrams (mg) per day.

      Patients who demonstrate improvement will be continued on the medication for an additional
      three months. Assessments will be performed every two weeks during the randomized trial and
      every month for those continued for up to three months on the medication.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 19 Years to 75 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

          -  Male or Female, 19 to 75 years of age, irrespective of race.

          -  Subject is able to and has voluntarily given informed consent prior to the
             performance of any study specific procedures.

          -  Subject has neurological impairment secondary to GBS, which has been stable for more
             than 12 months.

          -  Subject has motor strength that averages less than 5.0 but greater than 3.0 on the
             ASIA motor scale.

          -  Subject is able and willing to comply with protocol.

          -  Subjects will agree to no change in their outpatient therapy, or home exercise
             programs during enrollment in the study.
      
