TITLE:
Therapeutic HIV Vaccine and Interleukin-2 to Increase the Immune System's Response to HIV

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
ALVAC HIV vaccine (vCP1452)

SUMMARY:

      This study will evaluate whether the HIV vaccine ALVAC vCP1452 given in combination with
      interleukin-2 (IL-2), also known as aldesleukin, can increase immune system function in
      people with HIV infection.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      While the advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has contributed to the
      increasing control of HIV infection and viral replication, ultimate control of HIV infection
      will require the development of effective HIV-specific immunity in HIV infected individuals.

      This trial will evaluate the use of the ALVAC vCP1452 vaccine in combination with IL-2 to
      increase HIV-specific immune responses in HIV infected patients. ALVAC vCP1452 vaccine is a
      recombinant canarypox HIV vaccine that is administered as a monthly intramuscular injection.
      The IL-2 is self administered as a daily subcutaneous injection at a low, non-toxic dose (2
      million units).

      Participants in this study are randomized to receive either ALVAC and IL-2 or placebo for
      the first 3 months of the study. During this time, participants will continue on their
      current antiretroviral medications and have monthly study visits. Study visits will include
      a brief medical interview and physical exam, administration of the vaccine, and blood tests.
      At the end of 3 months, participants will discontinue both their study medications (IL-2 and
      ALVAC or placebo) and their antiretroviral medications. This Diagnostic Treatment
      Interruption (DTI) will continue for a minimum of 3 months. During the DTI, participants
      will have weekly study visits in which viral and lymphocyte dynamics are monitored.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

          -  HIV infected

          -  Stable HAART, defined as two or more antiretroviral drugs in combination. Changes in
             drugs are allowed if for any reason other than virologic failure.

          -  CD4 cell count > 200 cells/ml for the 12 months prior to enrollment

          -  CD4 cell count >= 400 cells/ml on two successive occasions at least 14 days apart
             within 30 days of study entry

          -  HIV RNA < 2 million copies/ml, with suppression on HAART to < 50 copies/ml on two
             successive occasions at least 14 days apart within 30 days of entry

          -  Acceptable methods of contraception

        Exclusion Criteria

          -  Current AIDS-defining illness

          -  Virologic failure (HIV RNA > 10,000 copies/ml) while receiving current HAART regimen

          -  Immunomodulating agents, including interleukins; antibodies reactive with
             lymphocytes, monocytes, or antigen presenting cells; and polyribonucleotides

          -  IL-2 therapy within 4 weeks of study entry

          -  Uncontrolled active cardiac, renal, pulmonary, hepatic, or CNS disease

          -  History of active malignancy requiring chemotherapy

          -  History of thyroid disease or autoimmune disorders, including asthma, inflammatory
             bowel disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and psoriasis

          -  Active infection with hepatitis B virus or hepatitis C virus

          -  Severe retinopathy due to diabetes, hypertension, CMV, or macular degeneration

          -  Serious infection or other serious medical illness that is potentially life
             threatening and requires systemic therapy and/or hospitalization within 14 days of
             study entry

          -  Substance abuse that will compromise the participant's ability to adhere to the study
             requirements

          -  Current alcohol use of more than 1 drink/day any time during 6 months prior to study
             entry. One drink is defined as 12 ounces of beer, 5 ounces of wine, or 1.25 ounces of
             hard liquor.

          -  History of allergy to eggs, IL-2, or other components of the vaccine or IL-2
             formulation

          -  Pregnant or breast-feeding

          -  Professionals working in close contact with canaries (e.g., breeding farms, bird
             shops)
      
