TITLE:
Cerebril in Patients With Lobar Hemorrhage Related to Cerebral Amyloid Angiopathy

CONDITION:
Stroke

INTERVENTION:
NC-758 (Anti amyloidotic [A] agent)

SUMMARY:

      The main objective of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and
      pharmacokinetics of Cerebril in Cerebral Amyloid Angiopathy (CAA) patients who have had
      lobar cerebral hemorrhage.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Hemorrhagic Stroke due to CAA represents approximately 7% of all strokes.

      The current phase II clinical study investigates the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetic
      and pharmacodynamic profiles of the drug candidate in patients who have suffered lobar
      hemorrhages. The initial phase of the study is also aimed at determining the optimal dosing
      regimens for subsequent drug candidate efficacy trials. The trial is also evaluating the
      appearance of new cerebral hemorrhages on gradient-echo MRI scans, the amyloid  (A)
      protein levels in the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid and the neurological and cognitive
      functions.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 55 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

          -  Patients must be 55 years of age or older.

          -  Males and females. Females must be of non-childbearing potential (i.e. surgically
             sterilized or at least one year post-menopausal).

          -  Diagnosis of possible or probable CAA based on the Boston Criteria for Diagnosis of
             CAA-Related Hemorrhage.

          -  Nonfatal lobar hemorrhage (defined as hemorrhage in the cerebral cortex and
             underlying white matter sparing the basal ganglia and thalamus) within previous five
             years diagnosed by CT or MRI scan.

          -  Patient has no intent to donate blood for 4 weeks after completion of the study.

          -  Signed informed consent.

        Exclusion Criteria

          -  Other established causes of hemorrhage at the time of the index hemorrhage event.
             Exclusion causes include excessive anticoagulation (INR > 4.0), associated head
             trauma or ischemic stroke, CNS tumor, vascular malformation, vasculitis, and blood
             dyscrasia.

          -  Patient with a clinically significant and uncontrolled cardiovascular, renal,
             hepatic, pulmonary, gastrointestinal, endocrine, metabolic, ophthalmologic,
             hematological condition or other significant medical disease.

          -  Presence of any condition that could interfere with the interpretation of study
             results or compromise patient safety.

          -  Debilitated neurological state or other known disease likely to result in early
             death.

          -  Disability characterized by a modified Rankin score  4.

          -  ALT, ALP, AST or total bilirubin  1.5 the upper limit of normal ranges.

          -  Contraindications to MRI scan (e.g. cranial metallic implant, cardiac pacemaker, and
             severe claustrophobia).

          -  Allergy and/or hypersensitivity to analgesic agents used for the lumbar puncture (for
             patients undergoing lumbar puncture only).

          -  Allergy and/or hypersensitivity to any component of the study medication.

          -  Use of an investigational drug within 30 days prior to Screening visit.

          -  Use of warfarin or warfarin containing compounds and heparin or heparin containing
             compounds within 7 days prior to Baseline (Week 0) visit.

          -  Diagnosis of cystatin C amyloid angiopathy.

          -  Active alcohol and/or drug abuse.

          -  Inability to provide legal consent
      
