TITLE:
ZD0473 in Treating Patients With Progressive or Relapsed Non-Small Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Lung Cancer

INTERVENTION:
picoplatin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of ZD0473 in treating patients who have
      progressive or relapsed non-small cell lung cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the anti-tumor effect of ZD0473 in patients with progressive or
      relapsed non-small cell lung cancer who have failed first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.
      II. Assess the safety and tolerability of this drug in these patients. III. Determine the
      pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients. IV. Determine the efficacy of this drug, in
      terms of time to death, time to disease progression, disease control, and duration of
      response, in these patients. V. Assess the therapy outcome index, in terms of
      disease-related symptom relief, of these patients treated with this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to time to relapse
      or progression after completion of first-line platinum-based chemotherapy (12 weeks or less
      vs more than 12 weeks). Patients receive ZD0473 IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at the beginning of each course, and then
      every 6 weeks for 1 year after completion of study. Patients are followed at 30 days after
      study completion and every 6 weeks for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 32-73 patients (23-56 per stratum 1 and 9-17 per stratum 2)
      will be accrued for this study within approximately 9 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically or cytologically confirmed non-small cell lung
        cancer Progressive or relapsed disease after first-line platinum-based chemotherapy
        Measurable disease No intracerebral metastases (unless asymptomatic, no corticosteroids
        required, and diagnostic imaging demonstrates no peritumoral edema or progression)

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: WHO 0-2 Life expectancy:
        More than 12 weeks Hematopoietic: Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm3 Platelet
        count at least 100,000/mm3 Hemoglobin at least 9 g/dL Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than
        1.25 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) ALT or AST less than 2.5 times ULN (5 times ULN
        if liver metastases present) No hepatic impairment No risk of hepatitis B transmission
        Renal: Creatinine clearance at least 60 mL/min Cardiovascular: No currently unstable or
        uncompensated cardiac conditions Pulmonary: No currently unstable or uncompensated
        respiratory conditions Other: No risk of HIV transmission No other malignancy within the
        past 5 years except adequately treated basal cell skin cancer or carcinoma in situ of the
        cervix No other severe or uncontrolled systemic disease No infectious condition No
        significant clinical disorder that would preclude study Body surface area at least 1.2 m2
        Not pregnant or nursing Negative pregnancy test Fertile patients must use effective
        barrier contraception for 3 months before, during, and for 3 months after study

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: See Disease
        Characteristics Endocrine therapy: See Disease Characteristics Radiotherapy: No prior
        extensive radiotherapy to 30% or more of bone marrow (e.g., whole of pelvis or half of
        spine) Surgery: Recovered from prior surgery Other: At least 2 weeks since prior systemic
        anticancer therapy and recovered
      
