TITLE:
Biological Significance of the Bloom's Syndrome Protein

CONDITION:
Bloom Syndrome

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      Since 1960, persons with the very rare disorder Bloom's syndrome (BS) have been followed
      clinically, documenting clinical matters as obtained from their doctors. This has been a
      worldwide search for cases, though a few in the New York City area are seen (personally, by
      us) perhaps once every 2-3 years. BS is a rare genetically-determined disorder described in
      NYC in 1954. The clinical courses of the 169 persons diagnosed BS by 1991 are followed in a
      program referred to as the Bloom's Syndrome Registry. BS is the prototype of the
      "chromosome-breakage syndromes." BS cells mutate at a greater rate than any other, and the
      consequence is the greatest known predisposition to cancers of the types that affect the
      general human population. We are defining the clinical syndrome and at the same time are
      studying cells from affected families in the experimental laboratory. BS is a model for
      learning about cancer. Our contact with families lets us know of cancers arising, but blood,
      and sometimes tiny biopsies of skin, is taken if available so that (a) the chromosomes can
      be studied and (b) the gene mutations can be defined in molecular terms.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Although an occasional person with BS will be admitted to the hospital for special study
      (endocrine evaluation mainly)--two in the last 25 years--the Registry does not develop a
      doctor/patient relationship with affected persons. They have their own doctors. We gather
      information about the affected persons and publish reports. We also publish reports of
      experiments carried out in the research laboratory using BS cells. Because we are a central
      repository for information on BS, families or their physicians find contact with us
      beneficial, and we provide them with information requested. Sometimes pregnancies at risk
      occur, and we have on occasion made cytogenic (chromosome) analysis of cultured cells of
      amniotic fluid (the cultures being initiated elsewhere and sent to us for cytogenetic
      study).

      Although the accessioning of new cases to the Registry was closed in 1991, 4-5 new patients
      are referred to us each year, and their clinical courses also are being followed. To date,
      the 169 officially registered and 36 additional cases are under our surveillance.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 2 Years to 55 Years
Criteria:

        1. families include those ascertained by physician referral and those families already
             accessioned to The Bloom's Syndrome Registry

          2. the family has at least one affected member with BS
      
