TITLE:
Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Head and Neck Cancer

CONDITION:
Head and Neck Cancer

INTERVENTION:
adjuvant therapy

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. It is not yet
      known which regimen of radiation therapy is more effective for head and neck cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of different regimens of
      radiation therapy in treating patients who have head and neck cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare adjuvant continuous hyperfractionated accelerated radiotherapy vs conventional
           radiotherapy, in terms of preventing disease recurrence, in patients with head and neck
           cancer.

        -  Compare the early and late toxic effects of these treatments in this patient
           population.

        -  Compare disease-free and overall survival of patients receiving these treatments.

        -  Assess quality of life in patients receiving these treatments.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to one of two
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo radiotherapy 3 times daily, with an interval of at least 6
           hours between any 2 treatments, 5 days a week, for just over 2 weeks, for a total of
           13-14 treatment days.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo radiotherapy daily, 5 days a week, for 6-6.5 weeks. Quality of
           life is assessed at baseline and then annually for 5 years.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 3 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 460 patients (230 per arm) will be accrued for this study
      within 2-3 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck including, but
             not limited to, the following:

               -  Oral cavity

               -  Oropharynx

               -  Hypopharynx

               -  Larynx

               -  Nasal sinuses

               -  Skin

          -  Undergone curative surgery within the past 70 days

               -  All macroscopic disease removed

          -  At high or intermediate risk of recurrence

               -  No low risk of recurrence

          -  No evidence of distant metastases

          -  Considered treatable by radiotherapy

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  Not specified

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No other prior or concurrent malignancy that would preclude study participation

          -  No other uncontrolled medical illness that would preclude study participation

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Surgery

          -  See Disease Characteristics
      
