TITLE:
Epirubicin, Carboplatin, and Capecitabine in Treating Patients With Unresectable Locally Advanced, Metastatic, or Recurrent Solid Tumor

CONDITION:
Esophageal Cancer

INTERVENTION:
capecitabine

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of combining epirubicin, carboplatin,
      and capecitabine in treating patients who have unresectable locally advanced, metastatic, or
      recurrent solid tumor.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and the recommended phase II dose of capecitabine
           administered with epirubicin and carboplatin in patients with unresectable locally
           advanced, metastatic, or recurrent solid tumors.

        -  Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics (PK) of capecitabine and correlate these PK parameters
           with clinical toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Correlate end-of-infusion levels of epirubicin and its metabolites with epirubicin dose
           and clinical toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the possible correlation between polymorphisms in the promoter region of the
           thymidylate synthase gene with clinical toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the antitumor activity of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of capecitabine.

      Patients receive epirubicin IV over 2 hours and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and
      oral capecitabine twice daily on days 2-5, 8-12, and 15-19. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of capecitabine until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, 24 additional
      patients are treated at the recommended phase II dose.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-45 patients (24 patients for phase II) will be accrued for
      this study within 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed solid tumor

               -  Progressive disease on standard therapy, including:

                    -  Locally advanced, unresectable primary or recurrent tumor OR

                    -  Metastatic disease

          -  Previously untreated metastatic cancer for which study regimen represents reasonable
             initial chemotherapy with palliative intent (e.g., metastatic gastric cancer,
             hepatobiliary cancer, or cancers for which no effective standard therapy exists)
             allowed

          -  Phase II portion:

               -  Diagnosis of cancer of the upper aerodigestive tract (head and neck, esophagus,
                  stomach, or hepatobiliary)

               -  No potential curative treatment options including surgery, radiotherapy,
                  chemoradiotherapy, or combination chemotherapy

               -  No leukemia or lymphoma

               -  No primary CNS malignancies or CNS metastases

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Absolute granulocyte count at least 2,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 mg/dL

          -  AST and ALT no greater than 2.5 times upper limit of normal

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.6 mg/dL

        Cardiovascular:

          -  LVEF at least 50%

          -  No symptomatic congestive heart failure

          -  No unstable angina

          -  No cardiac arrhythmia

        Other:

          -  No serious concurrent medical illness that would preclude study participation

          -  No active infections requiring IV antibiotic therapy

          -  No history of allergy to platinum compounds, mannitol, or antiemetics used with study
             drugs

          -  No history of severe intolerance to fluorouracil

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  More than 4 weeks since prior immunotherapy and recovered

        Chemotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  More than 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy (at least 6 weeks for nitrosoureas or
             mitomycin) and recovered

          -  No prior cumulative doxorubicin dose of more than 300 mg/m2

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 2 weeks since prior radiotherapy and recovered

          -  At least 8 weeks since prior strontium chloride Sr 89

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  Recovered from prior surgery

        Other:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior sorivudine or brivudine

          -  No concurrent sorivudine or brivudine

          -  No concurrent cimetidine

          -  No concurrent antiretroviral therapy for HIV-positive patients
      
