TITLE:
Hospital-Based Program for Treatment of Severe Cardiopulmonary Disease With Inhaled Nitric Oxide

CONDITION:
Pulmonary Hypertension

INTERVENTION:
Inhaled Nitric Oxide

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this program is to evaluate the logistic issues and patient requirements for
      chronic pulsed INOmax delivery in ambulatory, home-care patients. To understand patient
      needs, patients with a variety of underlying diseases will be included. Safety of chronic
      therapy will be monitored by serial measurements of methemoglobin, platelet function assay
      and reported adverse events.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This study will help develop a comprehensive home care program using INOmax delivery
      systems. This study will enroll a limited number of patients (5-7) from several disease
      categories in order to develop the experience with testing acute and chronic responsiveness
      to INO therapy. The following groups will be tested:

        1. Primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH)

        2. Severe pulmonary hypertension due to congenital (anatomic) heart disease

        3. Pulmonary hypertension or severe impairment of gas exchange in infants and children
           with chronic lung disease

        4. Pulmonary hypertension or severe impairment of gas exchange due to severe chronic lung
           disease in adults

        5. Pulmonary hypertension or severe impairment of gas exchange in hematologic and
           transplant disorders - young children and adults with sickle cell disease, chronic lung
           disease after bone marrow transplant, cardiac transplant, or lung transplant
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 5 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion criteria:

          -  Patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) as defines by a mean pulmonary
             artery pressure (PAP) of 25 mmHg or greater by cardiac catheterization within the
             previous 12 months AND/OR Patients with chronic lung disease with severe impairment
             of gas exchange unresponsive to conventional medical management.

          -  If patient is receiving prostacyclin infusion treatment it must have been started at
             least one month prior to starting INO therapy. Patients will not be withdrawn from
             the study if started on other medications for treatment of pulmonary hypertension.

          -  Ability to establish a clinical investigator and a drug shipment site in the local
             area.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  The Principal Investigator has determined that the patient and/or caregiver is/are
             unable to manage safe administration of home nitric oxide therapy and maintain
             appropriate drug accountability and storage.

          -  Women who are pregnant or nursing.
      
