TITLE:
Prevention of Autogenous Vein Graft Failure in Peripheral Artery Bypass Procedures

CONDITION:
Peripheral Vascular Diseases

INTERVENTION:
CGT003 (E2F Duplex Decoy)

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy of graft pretreatment with the E2F
      decoy, CGT003, as compared to placebo, on the occurrence of graft failure among patients who
      receive autogenous vein grafts to treat chronic critical limb ischemia; on the occurrence of
      clinically significant graft stenosis (more than or equal to 70%); and on the incidence of
      critical limb ischemia (e.g., gangrene, non-healing ischemic ulcers or ischemic rest pain).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Peripheral vascular disease manifested by narrowing of the peripheral arteries is one of the
      more common manifestations of atherosclerotic vascular disease. Complications such as
      claudication, rest pain, and impaired wound healing are frequent and may result in gangrene
      and amputation. Restoration of circulation to the lower extremities may be undertaken using
      a variety of techniques including angioplasty, stenting, and bypass grafting.

      Approximately 99,000 infra-inguinal bypass procedures were performed in the U.S. in 1998. It
      is estimated that approximately 22% of all infra-inguinal bypass grafts will fail by 12
      months. Graft failure rates have been estimated to increase to 40% at 12 months for patients
      receiving composite, cephalic or lesser saphenous (high-risk) vein grafts (Vascular Surgery
      Registry, Brigham and Womens Hospital). These primary graft failures are typically due to
      stenoses that result from neointimal hyperplasia, a pathological adaptation process that
      occurs in veins exposed to the arterial circulation. The consequences of graft failure are
      as significant as those of primary atherosclerotic disease and include ischemia and poor
      wound healing that may result in amputation. Since the long-term patency of venous grafts
      can be improved with treatment prior to frank occlusion, considerable efforts have been
      focused on the methods for the detection of grafts at high-risk for failure. Duplex
      ultrasonography has been determined to be a sensitive screening test for the early detection
      of failing grafts. Peak systolic velocity (PSV), as measured by duplex ultrasound, has been
      shown to be a sensitive marker for low flow, and wave form analysis has permitted the
      identification of areas of stenosis in the vein under study. Management of patients who have
      undergone infra-inguinal bypass therefore includes routine surveillance with duplex
      ultrasound and the immediate correction of significant (more than or equal to 70%) graft
      stenoses.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        PATIENTS MUST:

          -  Be scheduled to undergo infra-inguinal bypass grafting surgery using excised
             autogenous vein for Chronic Critical Limb Ischemia (i.e., rest pain, non-healing
             ulceration or gangrene). For patients presenting with rest pain as the only
             manifestation of CCLI, must have the diagnosis confirmed by at least one of the
             following,: i.) an ankle pressure of < 50 mmHg (or ABI <0.4), ii.) a toe pressure <
             30 mmHg, iii.) a reduced TCPO2 < 30 mmHg, or iv.) a severely ischemic or flat line
             transtarsal pulse volume recording (i.e., Category V).

          -  Be males or females of at least 18 years old.

          -  Have agreed to participate voluntarily and signed and dated an IRB-approved, Patient
             Informed Consent form.

          -  Have a documented negative serum pregnancy test for all women of childbearing
             potential.

          -  Be using an acceptable method of birth control if of reproductive potential.

          -  Note: Patients undergoing operations to replace previously occluded grafts that
             involve placement of an entirely new bypass graft ARE eligible for this study.
      
