TITLE:
Safety Study of 90Y-hMN14 to Treat Pancreatic Cancer

CONDITION:
Pancreatic Neoplasms

INTERVENTION:
hMN14 (labetuzumab)

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this trial is to determine the safety of 90Y-hMN14 at different dose levels
      in the treatment of pancreatic cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Disease Characteristics:

          -  Patients with a documented histologic or cytologic diagnosis of a pancreatic
             malignancy

          -  Patients with recurrent, advanced and/or metastatic disease, who have either failed
             standard therapy or are not eligible for any alternate therapies of higher
             therapeutic priority.

          -  Patients with at least one identified (confirmed) and measureable tumor site.

        Prior/Concurrent Therapy:

          -  Surgery: Patients are excluded if they have had major surgery either during or within
             four weeks prior to study entry.

          -  Chemotherapy: Patients must have failed standard therapy or are not eligible for any
             alternate therapies of higher therapeutic priority.

          -  Biologic Therapy: Patients who have received a chimeric, CDR-grafted (humanized), or
             human IgG will be eligible provided pre-study evaluations demonstrate no significant
             reactivity with hMN14 IgG (i.e., HAHA)

          -  Radiotherapy: No prior radiotherapy within four weeks of study entry. No prior
             external beam irradiation to a field that includes more than 30% of the red marrow.
             No prior radiation to maximal tolerable levels for any critical organ (e.g., 3,000
             cGy for the liver; 2,000 cGy for the lungs and kidneys).

          -  Other: Any experimental therapy (i.e., drugs, biologics, procedures) for the primary
             malignancy, either during or within four weeks prior to study entry.

        Patient Characteristics/Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Performance Status: Patients with a Karnofsky performance status > 70% (or
             equivalent, ECOG 0-1) and an expected survival rate of at least 3 months

          -  Hematopoietic: Hemoglobin > 10g/dL; WBC > 3000 per mm3; Granulocyte count > 1500 per
             mm3; platelet count > 100,000 per mm3

          -  Hepatic: Total bilirubin < 1.5 times the institutional upper limit of normal (IULN);
             AST or ALT < 2 X IULN

          -  Renal: Creatinine < IULN

          -  Cardiovascular: Patients with LVEF >/= 50% by required MUGA/2D-ECHO study

          -  Pulmonary: Patients with DF and FEV1 >/= 60 % by required Pulmonary Function Tests

          -  Gastrointestinal:Patients with severe anorexia or other related symptomology are
             excluded

          -  Central Nervous System: Patient with known metastatic disease to the CNS are excluded

          -  Other: Patients who have had a prior imaging study with a murine antibody may be
             included. Patients agreeing to use a medically effective method of contraception
             during and for a period of three months after the treatment period. A pregnancy test
             will be preformed on each premenopausal female of childbearing potential immediately
             prior to entry into the study. Patients able to understand and give written informed
             consent.
      
