TITLE:
Imatinib Mesylate in Treating Patients With Stage IV Colorectal Cancer

CONDITION:
Recurrent Colon Cancer

INTERVENTION:
imatinib mesylate

SUMMARY:

      Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of imatinib mesylate in treating patients who have
      stage IV colorectal cancer. Imatinib mesylate may interfere with the growth of tumor cells
      by blocking certain enzymes necessary for cancer cell growth
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine response to Gleevec (Imatinib Mesylate) in patients with metastatic
      colorectal cancer and with c-Kit, Arg, Abl, or PDGF-R expression.

      II. To determine the side effects of Imatinib Mesylate in patients with colorectal cancer.

      III. To study the biologic effects of Imatinib Mesylate on the c-Kit and PDGF-R system and
      downstream signaling in metastatic colorectal cancer.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive oral imatinib mesylate twice daily. Treatment continues for 8 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with stable disease or
      better continue therapy until disease progression or 1 year after complete response.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Histologically confirmed stage IV colorectal cancer

          -  Arg, KIT (CD117), or PDGF-R expression (1+ in 20% of cells) in the tumor or
             microvasculature

          -  At least one unidimensionally measurable lesion

               -  At least 10 mm by spiral CT scan

          -  No known brain metastases

          -  Performance status - ECOG 0-2

          -  Performance status - Karnofsky 60-100%

          -  At least 12 weeks

          -  Granulocyte count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 2.0 mg/dL

          -  AST/ALT less than 2.5 times upper limit of normal

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2.0 mg/mL

          -  No symptomatic congestive heart failure

          -  No unstable angina pectoris

          -  No cardiac arrhythmia

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective barrier contraception during and for 3 months
             after study participation

          -  No other malignancy within the past 3 years except non-melanoma skin cancer or
             carcinoma in situ of the cervix

          -  No concurrent uncontrolled illness

          -  No ongoing or active infection

          -  No psychiatric illness or social situation that would preclude study compliance

          -  More than 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy (6 weeks for nitrosoureas or mitomycin)
             and recovered

          -  More than 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy and recovered

          -  More than 3 weeks since prior surgery (excluding diagnostic biopsy)

          -  No other concurrent investigational agents

          -  No concurrent therapeutic doses of anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin)

          -  No concurrent grapefruit

          -  No concurrent combination antiretroviral therapy for HIV-positive patients
      
