TITLE:
Carotid Occlusion Surgery Study

CONDITION:
Stroke

INTERVENTION:
extracranial-intracranial bypass surgery

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to determine if extracranial-intracranial bypass surgery when
      added to best medical therapy can reduce the subsequent risk of ipsilateral stroke in
      high-risk patients with recently symptomatic carotid occlusion and increased cerebral oxygen
      extraction fraction measured by positron emission tomography (PET).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The overall purpose of this research is to determine if a surgical operation called
      "Extracranial-Intracranial Bypass" can reduce the chance of a subsequent stroke in someone
      who has complete blockage in one main artery in the neck (the carotid artery) that supplies
      blood to the brain and has already suffered a small stroke. This surgery involves taking an
      artery from the scalp outside the skull, making a small hole in the skull and then
      connecting the scalp artery to a brain artery inside the skull. In this way the blockage of
      the carotid artery in the neck is bypassed and more blood can flow to the brain. In some
      people natural bypass arteries develop and the brain is already getting plenty of blood.
      These people have a low risk of stroke if they take medicine. In other people, no natural
      bypass arteries develop so less blood flows to their brains. This second group has a much
      higher risk of stroke while taking medicine, as high as 25-50% within the next two years. It
      is this second group of people who may benefit from having the bypass operation and who are
      the candidates for this study.

      This bypass surgery is considered experimental because it is not generally performed for
      this condition and it is unknown whether it leads to a decrease, an increase or no change in
      the risk of stroke. In order to determine if people fit into this second group of people who
      may benefit from the bypass operation they need to have a test called a PET scan. The PET
      scan measures the amount of blood that is getting to the brain and the amount of oxygen that
      the brain is using. The PET scan uses radioactive oxygen and water and is experimental (not
      approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration). If the PET scan shows that less
      blood is getting to the brain, there will be a 50-50 chance (like a coin toss) of receiving
      the bypass surgery or not. There will then be follow-up visits to the clinic one month later
      and then every three months for two years to check on the appropriate medical treatment that
      everyone will receive and to determine who has had a stroke.

      The study hypothesis is that extracranial-intracranial bypass surgery when added to best
      medical therapy can reduce by 40 percent subsequent stroke within two years in participants
      with recent TIA ('ministroke") or stroke (</= 120 days) due to blockage of the carotid
      artery and reduced blood flow to the brain measured by PET.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Vascular imaging demonstrating occlusion of one or both internal carotid arteries.

          -  Transient ischemic attack (TIA) or ischemic stroke in the hemispheric carotid
             territory of one occluded carotid artery.

          -  Most recent qualifying TIA or stroke occurring within 120 days prior to projected
             performance date of PET.

          -  Modified Barthel Index > 12/20 (60/100).

          -  Language comprehension intact, motor aphasia mild or absent.

          -  Age 18-85 inclusive.

          -  Competent to give informed consent.

          -  Legally an adult.

          -  Geographically accessible and reliable for follow-up.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Non-atherosclerotic carotid vascular disease. Blood dyscrasias: Polycythemia vera
             ,essential thrombocytosis, sickle cell disease (SS or SC).

          -  Known heart disease likely to cause cerebral ischemia (echocardiography not
             required). This includes the following conditions ONLY: Prosthetic valve, Infective
             endocarditis, Left atrial or ventricular thrombus, Sick sinus syndrome, Myxoma,
             Cardiomyopathy with ejection fraction <25%. This is an all-inclusive list. The
             following conditions are NOT EXCLUSIONS: Atrial fibrillation, patent foramen ovale,
             atrial septal aneurysm.

          -  Other non-atherosclerotic condition likely to cause focal cerebral ischemia.

          -  Any condition likely to lead to death within 2 years.

          -  Other neurological disease that would confound follow-up assessment.

          -  Pregnancy.

          -  Subsequent cerebrovascular surgery planned which might alter cerebral hemodynamics.

          -  Any condition which in the participating surgeon's judgment makes the subject an
             unsuitable surgical candidate.

          -  Participation in any other experimental treatment trial.

          -  Participation within the previous 12 months in any experimental study that included
             exposure to ionizing radiation.

          -  Acute, progressing or unstable neurological deficit. Neurological deficit must be
             stable for 72 hours prior to the performance of PET.

          -  If supplemental arteriography is required, allergy to iodine or x-ray contrast media,
             serum creatinine > 3.0 mg/dl or other contraindication to arteriography.

          -  If aspirin is to be used as antithrombotic therapy in the perioperative period, those
             with allergy or contraindication to aspirin are ineligible.

          -  Medical indication for treatment with anticoagulant drugs, ticlopidine, clopidogrel
             or other antithrombotic medications such that these medications cannot be replaced
             with aspirin in the perioperative period as deemed necessary by the COSS neurosurgeon
             if the participant is randomized to surgical treatment.

          -  Remediable medical conditions. Patients with the following conditions can become
             eligible if the exclusion criterion no longer applies within 120 days of onset of the
             most recent qualifying event: Uncontrolled diabetes mellitus (FBS > 300 mg%/16.7
             mmol/L), Uncontrolled hypertension (systolic BP>180, diastolic BP >110), Unstable
             angina, Uncontrolled hypotension (diastolic BP < 65).
      
