TITLE:
Isoflavones and Acute-phase Response in Chronic Renal Failure

CONDITION:
Kidney Failure, Chronic

INTERVENTION:
soy isoflavones

SUMMARY:

      This is a randomized, double-blinded dietary intervention in hemodialysis patients to
      determine the clinical and metabolic effects of soy isoflavones on disease activity,
      including improvement of blood markers of acute-phase response, and decreased blood levels
      of markers of metabolic bone disease.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Up to 40 percent of end stage renal disease (ESRD) patients suffer from a chronic
      inflammatory process which is not currently amenable to specific treatment and is associated
      with high morbidity and mortality. High circulating levels and production of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines are an essential part of this ongoing acute-phase response and
      they are believed to exacerbate many of the clinical manifestations of ESRD, including renal
      osteodystrophy. Like in all other inflammatory processes that have undergone more extensive
      investigation, the nuclear factor, Nuclear Factor Kappa-B (NFKB) promises to be a critical
      cellular intermediate of this acute-phase response and to be both mediator and target of
      inflammatory cytokine effects. In the current search for agents that may be able to negate
      the ongoing acute-phase response of ESRD, the soy isoflavones genistein and daidzein have
      emerged as potentially useful. These isoflavones are present in many soyfoods, are available
      as over-the-counter nutritional supplements and have received growing attention due to their
      biological properties and potential as therapeutic agents. Inhibitory effects of the
      isoflavones on tyrosine kinase and NFKB activity, on inflammatory cytokine production and on
      oxidative stress have been demonstrated by this group and by many other investigators and
      they may be highly relevant to the renal failure population. Additionally, we have found
      recently that intake of soy food by ESRD patients results in very high blood levels of
      isoflavones and it is well tolerated.

      It is our working hypothesis that in chronic renal failure a variety of endogenous and
      exogenous factors trigger acute-phase response with activation of NFKB and production of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines, and that intervention with soy isoflavones inhibits NFKB
      activation and cytokines production, thus blocking the ongoing acute-phase response and
      affecting positively clinically relevant parameters of disease activity in ESRD.

      The specific objective of this proposal is to conduct a randomized, double-blinded dietary
      intervention trial in hemodialysis patients to determine whether:

        1. Dietary intake of the soy isoflavones by ESRD patients with clinical signs of ongoing
           acute-phase response decreases the production of the proinflammatory cytokines
           TNF-alpha, IL-1 and IL-6 in peripheral blood, thus changing the balance between these
           cytokines and their antagonists sTNF RI, sTNF RII, and IL-1ra.

        2. Suppression of inflammatory cytokine production by soy isoflavones is associated with
           improvement of clinically relevant parameters of disease activity, including
           improvement of blood markers of acute-phase response, and decreased blood levels of
           markers of metabolic bone disease.

        3. Intake of soy isoflavones suppresses NF-KB activity in peripheral blood monocytic cells
           of ESRD patients, in a manner consistent with change of cytokine levels and of clinical
           parameters of disease.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion criteria:

          -  Initiation of chronic hemodialysis therapy more than 6 months prior to enrollment in
             the study.

          -  Routine dialysis with highly biocompatible dialysis membranes, including polysulfone,
             polycarbonate, polyamide, or polymethylmethacrylate membranes.

          -  Historical compliance with three times weekly routine hemodialysis therapy.

          -  Ability and willingness to adhere to the intake of soy protein isolate drinks during
             dialysis therapy.

        Exclusion criteria:

          -  Use of calcitriol within the last six weeks

          -  Acute illness known to cause acute-phase response, including clinically detectable
             infections, trauma, surgery, burns, and tissue infarction, within the last 6 weeks.

          -  Chronic conditions known to cause acute-phase response, including
             immunologically-mediated and crystal-induced illnesses, cancer, and psychiatric
             illnesses.

          -  Hematocrit below 30%

          -  Aluminum intoxication

          -  Smoking

          -  Gastrointestinal disturbances that can interfere with isoflavone absorption,
             including acute gastrointestinal illness and/or intestinal microflora depletion
             following use of antibiotics within the last three months, chronic malabsorption
             syndrome, chronic liver disease.

          -  Other significant medical illnesses including decompensated heart failure, unstable
             coronary artery disease, advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
             decompensated thyroid disease, alcoholism, substance abuse.
      
