TITLE:
Calcitriol Plus Paclitaxel in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors

CONDITION:
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific

INTERVENTION:
calcitriol

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Calcitriol may increase the effectiveness of paclitaxel by
      making tumor cells more sensitive to the drug.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combining calcitriol with paclitaxel in
      treating patients who have advanced solid tumors.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the toxic effects and maximum tolerated dose of calcitriol when combined with
           paclitaxel in patients with advanced solid tumors.

        -  Determine the effect of administration of calcitriol on the pharmacokinetics of
           paclitaxel in these patients.

        -  Determine the effect of administration of paclitaxel on the pharmacokinetics of
           calcitriol in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of calcitriol.

      During course 1, patients receive oral calcitriol daily on days 1-3 of weeks 1-6 and
      paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1 of week 1 and day 3 of weeks 2-6. During course 2 and
      subsequent courses, patients receive oral calcitriol daily on days 1-3 and paclitaxel IV
      over 1 hour on day 3 of weeks 1-6. Treatment continues every 8 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of calcitriol until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the highest dose giving an estimated
      probability of dose-limiting toxicity of no more than 0.30.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically proven advanced cancer not curable by standard therapies

          -  Brain metastases allowed following definitive radiotherapy

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 mg/dL

          -  SGOT no greater than 4 times normal

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2.0 mg/dL

          -  Calcium no greater than 10.5 mg/dL

        Other:

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective double-barrier contraception for at least 1 week
             before, during, and for at least 2 weeks after study

          -  No active infection or serious concurrent condition

          -  No symptomatic peripheral neuropathy greater than grade 1

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  At least 3 weeks since prior regional or systemic biologic therapy

        Chemotherapy:

          -  At least 3 weeks since prior chemotherapy (6 weeks for mitomycin or nitrosourea)

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 3 weeks since prior radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified
      
