TITLE:
Anti-Inflammatory Treatment for Age-Associated Memory Impairment: A Double-Blind Placebo-Controlled Trial

CONDITION:
Memory Disorders

INTERVENTION:
Celecoxib

SUMMARY:

      This project is designed to study whether anti-inflammatory drugs, such as celecoxib, may
      delay age-related mental decline. We are also looking at genetic risk and brain structure as
      potential predictors of mental decline. We believe people with age-associated memory
      impairment who take celecoxib will show less evidence of mental decline than those receiving
      placebo (an inactive pill) after 18 months. We expect that brain structure at the start of
      the study, memory performance as indicated by tests, and age will be additional predictors
      of mental decline. We also predict that cognitive decline (i.e., decline in thinking and
      memory) and treatment response will vary according to genetic factors that may correlate
      with the age at which dementia begins. We believe other variables such as prior educational
      achievement, memory capability at the outset of the study, and gender may influence mental
      decline and treatment response. We will study people with age-associated memory impairment
      (mild memory complaints, decreased performance in selected memory tests), between 40 and 90
      years of age. The subjects will be randomly (i.e., by a process similar to flipping a coin)
      assigned to treatment groups. The subjects will receive either an inactive substance
      (placebo) or celecoxib (400 mg/day). The subjects will receive a magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI) scan, FDG PET scan, routine laboratory blood tests, electrocardiogram and cognitive
      tests. They will be followed for approximately 18 months and asked to return at specific
      intervals for follow-up testing. Measures of brain structure will be derived from baseline
      MRI scans and metabolic activity from PET scans, and blood will be drawn and tested to
      determine which forms (genotypes) of certain genetically determined cellular components the
      patient has.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Several observational epidemiological studies indicate that anti-inflammatory treatments
      attenuate or prevent the symptoms of one of the most common mental disorders of late life,
      Alzheimer's disease (AD). Neuropathological studies also support inflammatory or immune
      mechanisms in AD, including findings of reactive microglia within or near AD lesions. Such
      evidence, however, is circumstantial, and controlled, randomized drug trials are needed to
      determine efficacy.

      This project is designed to determine if the commonly used nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory
      drug (NSAID), celecoxib, is efficacious in delaying progression of cognitive symptoms in
      people with age-related cognitive losses who are at risk for developing AD. A total of 135
      subjects with age-associated memory impairment (AAMI) who are at risk for further cognitive
      decline (age 40 to 90 years) will be randomized (double-blind design) to one of two
      treatment groups: celecoxib (400 mg/d) or placebo, and followed for 18 months. All
      randomized subjects will receive magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, FDG PET scans, and
      selective genotyping (apolipoprotein E [APOE] and genetic risk for AD onset (e.g., APOE-4).
      Subjects receiving celecoxib are expected to show less evidence of cognitive decline than
      those receiving placebo. The proposed project builds upon our group's prior work on early
      detection of AD using brain imaging, genetic risk, and neuropsychological assessments. This
      project also is a logical follow-up to recent observational studies of a promising early
      intervention and will represent one of the first controlled, anti-inflammatory treatment
      trials for persons at high risk for age-related cognitive decline and the eventual
      development of AD.

      Subjects will be followed closely to ensure that medication is safely used, without side
      effects (e.g., gastrointestinal, renal, etc.).
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 40 Years to 90 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Age-associated memory impairment (AAMI)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Use of cholinesterase inhibitors

          -  Any current major psychiatric disorder such as depression or mania

          -  Subjects who may be sensitive to potential side effects of celecoxib, including those
             with any evidence of renal disease or gastrointestinal disease or predisposition or
             risk for bleeding, particularly gastrointestinal

          -  Subjects with histories of congestive heart failure, hypertension, peptic ulcer
             disease, any bleeding disorder, or other medical conditions that might increase
             medical risks from NSAID sensitivity

          -  Current diagnosis or history of alcoholism or drug dependence

          -  Evidence of depression

          -  Subjects with a contraindication for MRI scan

          -  Sulfur allergy
      
