TITLE:
Monoclonal Antibody Therapy, Cyclosporine, and Paclitaxel in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Refractory Metastatic Breast Cancer

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies can locate tumor cells and either kill them or deliver
      tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Combining monoclonal antibody
      therapy with cyclosporine and paclitaxel may be an effective treatment for metastatic breast
      cancer.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of radiolabeled monoclonal antibody
      therapy, cyclosporine, and paclitaxel in treating patients who have recurrent or refractory
      metastatic breast cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of yttrium Y 90 monoclonal antibody m170 in
           combination with cyclosporine and paclitaxel in patients with recurrent or refractory
           metastatic breast cancer.

        -  Determine the preliminary efficacy of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of yttrium Y 90 monoclonal antibody m170 (Y90 MOAB
      m170).

      Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) daily for 4 days prior to apheresis
      which continues daily for a maximum of 5 days. A minimum of 6 million CD34+ cells/kg must be
      harvested.

      Patients receive oral cyclosporine every 12 hours on days -3 to 25. Patients receive
      unlabeled monoclonal antibody (MOAB) m170 IV followed by a tracer dose of indium In 111 MOAB
      m170 IV on day 0. On day 7, patients receive unlabeled MOAB m170 IV followed by Y90 MOAB
      m170 IV. Patients in cohorts 2-4 also receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 9.

      If needed, patients undergo autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on day 21
      and receive G-CSF SC daily until blood counts recover.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of Y90 MOAB m170 until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed monthly for 3 months, every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 6
      months for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 18-30 patients will be accrued for this study within 36
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed metastatic breast adenocarcinoma

               -  Residual or recurrent disease after first-line standard chemotherapy

               -  Clinical evidence of metastatic disease

          -  Tumor cells positive for m170 immunoreactivity

          -  HAMA titer negative

          -  Hormone receptor status:

               -  Not specified

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Sex:

          -  Not specified

        Menopausal status:

          -  Not specified

        Performance status:

          -  Karnofsky 70-100%

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 mg/dL

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine less than 1.5 mg/dL

        Cardiovascular:

          -  LVEF at least 50% by MUGA

        Pulmonary:

          -  FEV1 at least 65% of predicted

          -  FVC at least 65% of predicted

          -  DLCO at least 60%

        Other:

          -  No other malignancy within the past 5 years except nonmelanoma skin cancer or
             adequately treated carcinoma in situ of the cervix

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  See Chemotherapy

        Chemotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 1 prior chemotherapy regimen for advanced disease

          -  Prior high-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell transplantation is allowed if
             given at least 12 months prior to study and carmustine was not used

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior external beam radiotherapy

          -  No prior radiotherapy to more than 25% of the total skeleton

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  No requirement for oral anticoagulants (low-dose warfarin for central line thrombosis
             prophylaxis allowed)
      
