TITLE:
Neurobehavioral Complications in Children Who Were Previously Treated With Steroids and Intrathecal Therapy for Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia

CONDITION:
Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
management of therapy complications

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Cancer therapies may affect the ability of a child's brain and central nervous
      system to function normally. Learning to identify which patients will develop complications
      may improve the ability of doctors to plan cancer treatment and improve patient quality of
      life.

      PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying neurobehavioral changes in children who have
      received steroid therapy or intrathecal therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare neurobehavioral functioning, specifically memory, attention, executive
           function, visual-motor integration, and processing speed, in children previously
           treated with steroids (prednisone vs dexamethasone) and intrathecal therapy
           (methotrexate alone vs methotrexate, cytarabine, and hydrocortisone) for childhood
           acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

        -  Correlate non-treatment risk factors, such as gender, age at diagnosis, and time since
           termination of prior therapy, with impaired neurobehavioral function in these patients.

        -  Correlate neurobehavioral complications with quality-of-life of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, cohort study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts (prior
      treatment per CCG-1922 [prednisone vs dexamethasone] vs prior treatment per CCG-1952
      [intrathecal (IT) methotrexate vs IT methotrexate, cytarabine, and hydrocortisone]).
      Patients in each cohort are stratified according to age at diagnosis, gender, and time since
      prior treatment termination.

        -  Cohort A (CCG-1922): Patients undergo physical and neurological examination,
           neurobehavioral evaluation, and quality of life assessment. Neurobehavioral evaluations
           assess memory, attention, and executive function.

        -  Cohort B (CCG-1952): Patients undergo evaluation as above. Neurobehavioral evaluations
           assess visual-motor integration and processing speed.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 448 patients (224 per cohort) will be accrued for this study
      within 4 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 6 Years to 16 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of standard-risk childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)

               -  In continuous first remission

               -  No history of CNS pathology requiring radiotherapy or surgery

          -  Prior enrollment on one of the following Children's Cancer Group (CCG) protocols AND
             terminated therapy at least 1 year ago:

               -  CCG-1922 (prednisone vs dexamethasone)

               -  CCG-1952 (intrathecal methotrexate vs triple intrathecal therapy)

                    -  No prior enrollment on CCG-1952 arm III

          -  No history of pre-existing neurodevelopmental disorder before diagnosis of ALL (e.g.,
             mental retardation, Down syndrome, seizure disorder, or traumatic brain injury)

          -  No neuropsychological assessment within the past 6 months

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  6.5 to 16 years

        Performance status

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic

          -  Not specified

        Renal

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  Reading, speaking, and listening comprehension of English by patient required
             (English and/or Spanish by parent)

          -  No history of very low birth weight (< 1,500 grams)

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Endocrine therapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Radiotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Surgery

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Other

          -  Concurrent stimulants allowed
      
