TITLE:
A Study of ARRY-142886 in Patients With Advanced Cancer

CONDITION:
Advanced Cancer

INTERVENTION:
ARRY-142886, MEK inhibitor; oral

SUMMARY:

      This is a Phase 1 study during which patients with advanced solid tumors will receive
      investigational study drug ARRY-142886.

      This study has 2 parts. In the first part, patients will receive increasing doses of study
      drug in order to achieve the highest dose of study drug possible that will not cause
      unacceptable side effects. Approximately 25 patients from the US will be enrolled in Part 1
      (Completed).

      In the second part of the study, patients will receive the best dose of study drug,
      determined from the first part of the study, and will be followed to see what side effects
      the study drug causes and what effectiveness the study drug has, if any, in treating the
      cancer. Approximately 35 patients from the US will be enrolled in Part 2 (Completed).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Key Inclusion Criteria (Part 2):

          -  Histopathologically or cytologically confirmed solid tumor that is refractory to
             standard therapies, or for which no standard therapies exist, or for which the
             Investigator feels no other active therapy is required for the duration of the study.

          -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status (PS) of 0, 1 or 2.

          -  Estimated life expectancy of greater than or equal to 3 months.

          -  Patient must have a tumor that is accessible for biopsy and must consent to paired
             tumor biopsies and normal skin biopsies being taken pre- and post-dose of study drug.

          -  Additional criteria exist.

        Key Exclusion Criteria (Part 2):

          -  Uncontrolled or symptomatic brain metastases.

          -  Use of investigational drug or device within 30 days prior to first dose of study
             drug.

          -  Major surgery within 30 days prior to study start.

          -  Radiotherapy or chemotherapy within 21 days prior to study start (not including
             palliative radiotherapy at focal sites).

          -  Pregnancy or lactation.

          -  Known positive serology for the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B
             and/or hepatitis C.

          -  Additional criteria exist.
      
