TITLE:
VELCADE (Bortezomib) With Rituximab in Subjects With Relapsed or Refractory Indolent B-Cell Lymphoma

CONDITION:
B-Cell Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
VELCADE and rituximab

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of VELCADE when given
      in combination with rituximab in patients with Relapsed or Refractory Indolent B-Cell
      Lymphoma. This study will investigate if treatment with VELCADE and rituximab increases the
      time it takes your lymphoma to get worse.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male or female subject 18 years or older

          -  Diagnosis of B-cell lymphoma (CD20+) of

               -  follicular lymphoma (grades 1, 2, and 3) or

               -  marginal zone lymphoma (extranodal, nodal, and splenic)

          -  Documented relapse or progression following prior anti-neoplastic treatment.

          -  At least 1 measurable lymph node mass that is >1.5 cm.

          -  No active CNS lymphoma

          -  Voluntary consent

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Previous treatment with VELCADE

          -  Any anti-neoplastic or experimental therapy within 3 weeks before the first dose of
             study drug.

          -  Any treatment with nitrosoureas within 6 weeks before the first dose of study drug.

          -  Treatment with Zevalin or Bexxar within 10 weeks before the first dose of study
             drug.

          -  Rituximab, Campath or other unconjugated therapeutic antibody within 4 weeks before
             the first dose of study drug.

          -  Radiation therapy within 3 weeks before the first dose of study drug.

          -  Major surgery within 2 weeks before the first dose of study drug.

          -  Peripheral neuropathy or neuropathic pain

          -  History of allergic reaction attributable to compounds containing boron or mannitol

          -  Known anaphylaxis or hypersensitivity to any component of rituximab

          -  Diagnosed or treated for a selected malignancies other than NHL within 5 years.

          -  Active systemic infection requiring treatment

          -  Female subjects must not be pregnant, breast-feeding, or become pregnant during the
             course of the study.

          -  Male subjects who do not agree to use an acceptable method of contraception for the
             duration of the study

          -  Any serious medical or psychiatric illness likely to interfere with participation in
             this clinical study

          -  Concurrent treatment with another investigational agent. Concurrent participation in
             non-treatment studies is allowed, if it will not interfere with participation in this
             study.
      
