TITLE:
DC Vaccine Combined With IL-2 and IFN-2a in Treating Patients With mRCC

CONDITION:
Kidney Cancer

INTERVENTION:
Aldesleukin,

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Vaccines made from a patient's dendritic cells and tumor cells may make the body
      build an immune response to kill tumor cells. Interleukin-2 may stimulate a person's
      lymphocytes to kill kidney cancer cells. Interferon alfa may interfere with the growth of
      cancer cells. Combining vaccine therapy with interleukin-2 and interferon alfa may kill more
      tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving vaccine therapy together with
      interleukin-2 and interferon alfa works in treating patients with metastatic renal cell
      carcinoma (kidney cancer).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the clinical response rate in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma
           treated with autologous dendritic cells (DC) loaded with autologous tumor lysate (DC
           vaccine) in combination with interleukin-2 and interferon-alfa.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine, within relevant immune pathways, the treatment-related, tumor-specific
           immune response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate tumor-specific immune response with objective clinical response in patients
           treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Induction therapy: Patients undergo leukapheresis on day -9. Patients receive
           autologous dendritic cells (DC) loaded with autologous tumor lysate (DC vaccine) by
           intranodal injection on days 0 and 14; interleukin-2 (IL-2) IV continuously on days 1-5
           and 15-19; and interferon-alfa (IFN-) subcutaneously (SC) once daily on days 1, 3, 5,
           15, 17, and 19.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Patients undergo leukapheresis on days 33, 61, and 89. Patients
           receive DC vaccine by intranodal injection on days 42, 70, and 98; IL-2 IV continuously
           on days 43-47, 71-75, and 99-103; and IFN- SC once daily on days 43, 45, 47, 71, 73,
           75, 99, 101, and 103.

      Patients are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 18-33 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Histologically confirmed metastatic renal cell carcinoma with measurable disease.

          -  Tumor tissue available and properly stored for lysate preparation.

          -  Patients must be at least 4 weeks from their last immunotherapy, radiation, surgery
             or chemotherapy (6 weeks for nitrosureas) and recovered from all ill effects.

          -  Karnofsky Performance Status 60%

          -  Life expectancy  twelve weeks

          -  Adequate end organ function:

          -  Hematological: ANC  1000cells/L, platelets  75,000/L, hemoglobin  8.5 g/dl

          -  Liver: AST < 2 x ULN (upper limit of normal) unless due to metastases then < 5 x ULN,
             serum total bilirubin < 2 x ULN (except for patients with Gilbert's Syndrome)

          -  Renal: serum creatinine < 2.0 x ULN.

          -  Pulmonary: FEV1 > 2.0 liters or > 75% of predicted for height and age.

          -  Cardiac: No evidence of congestive heart failure, symptoms of coronary artery
             disease, myocardial infarction less than 6 months prior to entry, or serious cardiac
             arrhythmias. Patients over 40 or have had previous myocardial infarction greater than
             6 months prior to entry will be required to have a negative or low probability
             cardiac stress test for cardiac ischemia.

          -  CNS: No history of brain metastases.

          -  Women should not be lactating and, if of childbearing age, have a negative pregnancy
             test within two weeks of entry to the study.

          -  Appropriate Contraception in both sexes

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

          -  Patients may have not have been treated previously with IL-2, IFN or autologous
             vaccine.

          -  Concomitant second malignancy except for non-melanoma skin cancer, and non- invasive
             cancer such as cervical CIS, superficial bladder cancer without local recurrence,
             breast CIS.

          -  In patients with a prior history of invasive malignancy, less than five years in
             complete remission

          -  Positive serology for HIV, hepatitis B or hepatitis C,

          -  Significant co-morbid illness such as uncontrolled diabetes or active infection that
             would preclude treatment on this regimen.

          -  Use of corticosteroids or other immunosuppression (if patient had been taking
             steroids, at least 4 weeks must have passed since the last dose).

          -  History of autoimmune disease.
      
