TITLE:
Cytokine Gene Polymorphisms in Bone Marrow Failure

CONDITION:
Bone Marrow Diseases

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      This study will examine whether cytokine gene polymorphisms affect the progression or
      response to therapy of bone marrow failure disorders. Cytokine genes instruct cells to
      produce proteins called cytokines that influence immune system response. As with many genes,
      the cytokine genes differ slightly from person to person. These differences are called gene
      polymorphisms. Different patients with the same bone marrow failure disease often progress
      and respond to treatment differently. This study will look at the possible role of cytokine
      gene polymorphisms in these differences.

      Patients between 2 and 80 years old who have participated in an NHLBI Hematology Branch
      treatment protocol for acquired aplastic anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, or pure red cell
      aplasia are recruited to participate in this study. Blood collected and stored at the time
      of screening for the treatment protocol will be tested for cytokine gene polymorphisms. No
      additional tests, procedures, or treatments are involved in this study.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The NHLBI Hematology Branch is investigating features that may affect the clinical course of
      bone marrow failure patients.

      We are particularly interested in identifying factors, which determine treatment response
      and outcome. Cytokines are biological mediators of the immune response. In a normal
      population there is considerable variation in the precise sequence of the genes which
      control cytokine production (Cytokine Gene Polymorphism or CGP). As a consequence
      individuals differ in the quality of the immune response they mount against self or foreign
      antigens. Since the bone marrow failure disorders aplastic anemia and myelodysplastic
      syndrome involve auto-immune suppression of marrow function, it is important to discover
      whether there are any recurrent patterns of cytokine production in these disorders which may
      contribute to the marrow failure. This can be done by studying the sequences of the genes
      that control cytokine production to find out whether there are any recurrent gene patterns
      in the diseases studied. In addition we need to understand why some patients fail to respond
      to immunosuppressive treatments. By comparing CGP in responders and non-responders we may be
      able to find patterns of cytokine production that are favorable or unfavorable for response.
      Better understanding of CGPs in marrow failure syndromes should make it possible to improve
      the outcome for patients who fail immune suppression by using drugs which block specific
      cytokines.

      None of these polymorphisms are associated with known clinical disease to be classifiable as
      a 'genetic defect'. All testing will be done on samples collected and stored for research
      purposes from consenting bone marrow failure subjects who have or will be participating on
      Hematology Branch research protocols.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 2 Years to 80 Years
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Participation on a Hematology Branch bone marrow failure treatment protocol.

        Diagnosis with one of the following bone marrow failure conditions:

        Acquired aplastic anemia

        Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)

        Pure red cell aplasia (PRCA)

        For adults: Ability to comprehend the investigational nature of the study and provide
        informed consent. For minors: Written informed consent from one parent or guardian.
        Informed assent from minors: The process will be explained to the minor on a level of
        complexity appropriate for their age and ability to comprehend.

        Age greater than or equal to 2 and less than or equal to 80.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Subjects unable to comprehend the investigational nature of the laboratory research.
      
