TITLE:
Phase I Trial of CC-8490 for the Treatment of Subjects With Recurrent/Refractory High-Grade Gliomas

CONDITION:
Glioblastoma

INTERVENTION:
CC-8490

SUMMARY:

      Phase I trial of CC-8490 for the treatment of subjects with recurrent/refractory high-grade
      gliomas
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), gliosarcoma, anaplastic astrocytoma
             (AA), anaplastic oligodendroglioma (AO), anaplastic mixed oligoastrocytoma (AMO),
             malignant glioma/astrocytoma NOS (not otherwise specified). Also included will be
             radiographically diagnosed infiltrating brain stem gliomas not amenable to biopsy.
             Other CNS tumor histologies will not be eligible for this trial.

          -  Patients must have shown either evidence for tumor recurrence or progression by CT or
             (preferably) MRI scan performed within 21 days prior to registration or had biopsy
             proven recurrent glioma within the last 12 weeks prior to enrollment (in order to
             allow the enrollment of patients with recurrent gliomas who have undergone a complete
             radiographic resection and now have no radiographic evaluable disease)

          -  Patients having undergone recent resection of a recurrent or progressive tumor will
             be eligible two weeks after surgery.

          -  Patient must have failed prior radiation therapy and must have an interval of greater
             than or equal to 2 weeks from the completion of radiation therapy to study entry.

          -  All patients must sign an informed consent, or if cognitively impaired, their
             assigned DPA, indicating that they are aware of the investigational nature of this
             study.

          -  Patients must be > 18 years old, and must have a life expectancy > 8 weeks.

          -  Patients must have a Karnofsky performance status of > 60.

          -  Additionally, patients must be at least 6 weeks from nitrosoureas, 4 weeks from
             temozolomide or carboplatin, 3 weeks from procarbazine, and 2 weeks from last
             vincristine administration. Patients must be at least 4 weeks from other cytotoxic
             therapies not listed above and 2 weeks for non-cytotoxic agents (e.g., interferon,
             tamoxifen).

          -  Patients must have adequate bone marrow function (granulocyte count >= 1500/mm3,
             platelet count of > 100,000/mm3, and hemoglobin > 8 gm%), adequate liver function
             (total bilirubin <= 1.5 mg/dL, AST/ALT <= 2 x ULN), and adequate renal function
             (creatinine <= 1.5 mg/dL or creatinine clearance > 60 cc/min) before starting
             therapy. These tests must be performed within 14 days prior to registration.
             Eligibility level for hemoglobin may be reached by transfusion. Eligibility level for
             platelets may not be reached by transfusion.

          -  Patients must either not be receiving steroids, or be on a stable dose of steroids
             for at least five days prior to registration.

          -  Patients with a history of any other cancer (except non-melanoma skin cancer or
             carcinoma in-situ of the cervix) are ineligible, unless they are in complete
             remission and off all therapy for that disease for a minimum of 3 years.

          -  Patients must not be pregnant or nursing, and all patients (both men and women) must
             be willing to practice birth control during and for 2 months after treatment with
             CC-8490. Women of childbearing potential (WCBP) who are sexually active must agree to
             use adequate contraceptive methods (oral, injectable, or implantable hormonal
             contraceptive; tubal ligation; intra-uterine device; barrier contraceptive with
             spermicide; or vasectomized partner).

          -  Patients must be able to swallow capsules whole.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients who, in the view of the treating physician, have significant active cardiac,
             hepatic, renal, or psychiatric diseases that would significantly increase the risk of
             using CC-8490 are ineligible.

          -  Concurrent use of other standard chemotherapeutics or investigative agents.

          -  Pregnant or lactating females.

          -  Any condition, including the presence of laboratory abnormalities, which places the
             subject at unacceptable risk if he/she were to participate in the study, obscures the
             evaluation of toxicity or alters drug metabolism.

          -  Use of other experimental study drug within 28 days of registration.
      
