TITLE:
A Randomized, Comparative Study of Daily Dapsone and Daily Atovaquone for Prophylaxis Against PCP in HIV-Infected Patients Who Are Intolerant of Trimethoprim and/or Sulfonamides

CONDITION:
Pneumonia, Pneumocystis Carinii

INTERVENTION:
Atovaquone

SUMMARY:

      To compare the efficacy and safety of dapsone versus atovaquone in preventing or delaying
      the onset of histologically proven or probable Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in
      HIV-infected patients with CD4 counts <= 200 cells/mm3 or <= 15 percent of the total
      lymphocyte count who are intolerant to trimethoprim and/or sulfonamides.

      Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX), which is effective for secondary PCP prophylaxis,
      is associated with allergic manifestations and side effects that limit its use. Patients who
      are intolerant of TMP/SMX require an effective alternative. Dapsone and atovaquone have both
      shown promise as PCP prophylactic agents.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX), which is effective for secondary PCP prophylaxis,
      is associated with allergic manifestations and side effects that limit its use. Patients who
      are intolerant of TMP/SMX require an effective alternative. Dapsone and atovaquone have both
      shown promise as PCP prophylactic agents.

      Patients are randomized to receive either dapsone or atovaquone daily, with follow-up at the
      clinic every 4 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication: Strongly recommended:

          -  Pyrimethamine (50 mg) and folinic acid (15 mg) weekly in patients receiving dapsone
             who have CD4 count < 100 cells/mm3 and are toxoplasmosis seropositive.

        Patients must have:

          -  Working diagnosis of HIV infection.

          -  CD4 count <= 200 cells/mm3 or <= 15 percent of total lymphocyte count at any time in
             the past OR a history of PCP.

          -  History of intolerance of trimethoprim and/or sulfonamides that required permanent
             discontinuation.

        NOTE:

          -  Pregnant patients are eligible at the clinician's discretion.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Prior PCP prophylaxis.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Active pneumocystosis.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  PCP prophylaxis (other than study drug) or any medication with potential anti-PCP
             activity.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  Known treatment-limiting reaction to dapsone or atovaquone.
      
