TITLE:
An Open Trial Combining Zidovudine, Interferon-alfa, and Recombinant CD4-IgG With Transplantation of Syngeneic Bone Marrow and Peripheral Blood Lymphocytes From Healthy gp160-Immunized Donors in the Treatment of Patients With HIV Infection

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
CD4-IgG

SUMMARY:

      To restore immunologic function and virus-free state in HIV-infected patients. Based on
      previous studies showing temporary improvement in immune function in HIV-infected patients
      using peripheral lymphocyte transfers and bone marrow transplantation, and based on studies
      documenting the antiretroviral effects of zidovudine (AZT) and interferon-alfa (IFN-A) as
      well as the preliminary test tube and patient studies suggesting anti-HIV effects of
      recombinant CD4-IgG, we propose to treat HIV-infected patients using combination
      antiretroviral therapy with transplantation of bone marrow and peripheral lymphocytes from
      previously immunized donors in an attempt to restore immunologic function and a virus-free
      state.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Based on previous studies showing temporary improvement in immune function in HIV-infected
      patients using peripheral lymphocyte transfers and bone marrow transplantation, and based on
      studies documenting the antiretroviral effects of zidovudine (AZT) and interferon-alfa
      (IFN-A) as well as the preliminary test tube and patient studies suggesting anti-HIV effects
      of recombinant CD4-IgG, we propose to treat HIV-infected patients using combination
      antiretroviral therapy with transplantation of bone marrow and peripheral lymphocytes from
      previously immunized donors in an attempt to restore immunologic function and a virus-free
      state.

      Three patients are treated with stable doses of AZT, IFN-A, and CD4-IgG for 12 weeks,
      followed by six peripheral lymphocyte infusions and transplantation of bone marrow from
      their respective identical twins. Following bone marrow transplantation, patients continue
      to receive the three drugs. Additional periods of lymphocyte apheresis and transfer may be
      offered to each donor/recipient pair.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

          -  Each patient must have an identical twin in a normal state of health with a normal
             screening lab panel and a normal immune profile who is documented to be antibody and
             culture and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) negative for HIV.

          -  Ability to provide informed consent.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  Malignancy other than Kaposi's sarcoma.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Unwillingness to comply with current NIH Clinical Center guidelines concerning
             appropriate notification of all current sexual partners of an individual regarding
             his or her positive HIV serostatus and the risk of transmission of HIV infection.

          -  Presence of a serious opportunistic infection or other illness or condition that, in
             the opinion of the principal investigator, warrants exclusion from participation in
             the study.

        Current use of illicit drugs or significant amounts of alcohol that, in the opinion of the
        principal investigator, would interfere with compliance with the study.
      
