TITLE:
A Placebo-Controlled, Phase I, Pilot Clinical Trial to Evaluate the Safety and Immunogenicity of ENV 2-3, a Yeast-Derived Recombinant Envelope Protein of Human Immunodeficiency Virus-1, in Combination With MTP-PE/MF59 in Individuals With HIV Infection (Placebo Patients Receive MF59 Emulsion Only)

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
MTP-PE/MF59

SUMMARY:

      To determine the safety and immunogenicity of Env 2-3 in combination with MTP-PE/MF59
      adjuvant in adult volunteers with HIV infection.

      By vaccinating those who have HIV infection, perhaps the replication (reproduction) of
      existing viral strains can be suppressed and the asymptomatic period early in the infectious
      process can be prolonged. One potential way to do this is to boost HIV antigen-specific CD4
      responses, which may in turn increase the effectiveness of CD8 killing of HIV infected
      cells.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      By vaccinating those who have HIV infection, perhaps the replication (reproduction) of
      existing viral strains can be suppressed and the asymptomatic period early in the infectious
      process can be prolonged. One potential way to do this is to boost HIV antigen-specific CD4
      responses, which may in turn increase the effectiveness of CD8 killing of HIV infected
      cells.

      Eight patients are entered in the pilot portion of the study, thirty patients are entered on
      Part A and fifteen patients are entered on Part B. In the pilot study, patients receive 30
      mcg Env 2-3 vaccine plus 0 - 10 mcg MTP-PE/MF59 adjuvant. Patients on Part A receive one of
      the following: MF59 emulsion only; 100 mcg MTP-PE/MF59 only; 30 mcg Env 2-3 with MF59
      emulsion only; or 30 mcg Env 2-3 vaccine with 100 mcg MTP-PE/MF59. Patients on Part B
      receive either 100 mcg MTP-PE/MF59 only or 30 mcg Env 2-3 vaccine plus 100 mcg MTP-PE/MF59.
      Treatment is administered on days 0, 28, and 112, and patients are followed for up to 10
      months. Per amendment, patients may receive two additional doses of 30 mcg Env 2-3 or
      placebo in MTP-PE/MF59 at 7 and 10 months (Parts A and B) or 9 and 12 months (Pilot study)
      after their initial inoculation.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must be:

          -  Healthy HIV-seropositive adults (generalized lymphadenopathy, seborrheic dermatitis
             acceptable).

          -  Negative for HIV plasma culture.

          -  Available for 6 months follow-up (patients in Pilot study) or 10 months follow-up
             (patients in Parts A and B).

        Prior Medication: Required:

          -  Part B: Zidovudine (AZT), tolerating a dose of 500 - 600 mg/day for at least 4 months
             prior to entry.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  Evidence of psychological disorder during the past year that would impair adherence
             to the protocol.

          -  Evidence of an AIDS defining opportunistic infection.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Any potential immunomodulating agents (e.g., isoprinosine, imuthiol, lithium) within
             90 days of screening.

          -  Immunosuppressive medications during the past 3 months.

          -  Part A: Use of zidovudine (AZT) for more than 30 days in the preceding 6 months, or
             any AZT within the last 30 days.

          -  Parts A and B: Any non-AZT antiretroviral drug.

          -  Any other investigational agent within the past 30 days.

          -  Immunoglobulins within the past 60 days.

        Patients may not have the following prior conditions:

          -  Evidence of psychological disorder during the past year that would impair adherence
             to the protocol.

          -  History of an AIDS-defining opportunistic infection.

        Use of illicit drugs or significant amounts of alcohol that, in the opinion of the
        principal investigator, would interfere with compliance with the study.
      
