TITLE:
Aerosols in the Treatment of Asymptomatic Pneumocystis Pneumonia: A Pilot Study Assessing the Effectiveness of Aerosolized Pentamidine as Treatment of Subclinical Pneumocystis Infection in Patients With No Clinical Symptoms

CONDITION:
Pneumonia, Pneumocystis Carinii

INTERVENTION:
Pentamidine isethionate

SUMMARY:

      To confirm the ability of pulmonary (lung) function testing (PFT) to detect Pneumocystis
      carinii pneumonia (PCP) before the development of clinical symptoms and to determine if
      pentamidine (PEN), a drug used in treating PCP, can be given effectively as an aerosol
      (inhaled mist). Other goals include the measurement of the actual amount of PEN that reaches
      the lung, and to determine if close clinical observation is safer and as effective as drug
      therapy for the prevention of subsequent episodes of PCP.

      Many AIDS patients develop PCP, but the effectiveness of early diagnosis and treatment of
      PCP is not known. The effectiveness of PEN may be improved if treatment is begun when the
      parasite burden (the number of organisms in the lung) is still small, and before respiratory
      symptoms appear. If PFT of HIV-infected patients is able to identify patients in the early
      stages of infection, outpatient treatment of these patients offers a possible alternative to
      the expense and toxicity of continuous preventive therapy of all high-risk patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Many AIDS patients develop PCP, but the effectiveness of early diagnosis and treatment of
      PCP is not known. The effectiveness of PEN may be improved if treatment is begun when the
      parasite burden (the number of organisms in the lung) is still small, and before respiratory
      symptoms appear. If PFT of HIV-infected patients is able to identify patients in the early
      stages of infection, outpatient treatment of these patients offers a possible alternative to
      the expense and toxicity of continuous preventive therapy of all high-risk patients.

      Patients are treated with aerosolized PEN on an outpatient basis. The aerosol therapy is
      given by a respiratory therapist 5 times a week, for a total of 21 days of treatment. In
      addition, patients participate in two radioactive aerosol studies in which the patient
      inhales a radioactive gas while sitting with his/her back against a gamma camera. The
      resulting picture outlines the lungs. Then the gas is exhaled and the patient breathes an
      aerosol of PEN. This mist contains a single dose of PEN mixed with a small amount of
      radioactivity (99mTc-pertechnetate). The gamma camera determines where the particles deposit
      in the lungs. The radioactive exposure is equivalent to a typical x-ray of the ribs.
      Patients also undergo diagnostic bronchoscopy with lavage, and PFT. Blood is drawn to
      measure the blood level of PEN. Patients are followed (clinical exams and PFT's) for 6
      months after the end of therapy. Prophylaxis for PCP is allowed during the 6-month
      follow-up.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Treatment:

        Allowed during aerosolization:

        Metaproterenol or albuterol to treat bronchospasm.

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV infection confirmed by ELISA, HIV culture, or p24 antigenemia.

          -  Suspected subclinical Pneumocystis carinii infection as detected by > 10 percent
             change in lung volumes and/or diffusing capacity indicative of progressive
             restrictive disease as detected by monthly screening pulmonary function tests
             (PFT's). Patients will be afebrile and have no respiratory signs or symptoms of
             clinical disease. Morphologic confirmation of pneumocysts will be determined by
             bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) performed 24 hours after the initial aerosol inhalation.
             If the BAL is negative for pneumocysts, the patient will be withdrawn from this
             protocol and will be followed per the screening PFT protocol at Stony Brook.

          -  Diagnostic bronchoscopy and BAL must be performed within 2 weeks of detection of > 10
             percent change in PFTs.

          -  Ability and willingness to sign informed consent.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Primary prophylaxis with agents active against Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP),
             but no more than 5 patients may have received prior prophylaxis with aerosolized
             pentamidine.

          -  Zidovudine.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  History of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP).

          -  Development of respiratory signs and/or symptoms in the interval between detection of
             pulmonary function test (PFT) abnormality and the time of initial aerosol deposition.

          -  Dyspnea, cough, or bronchospasm that prevents cooperation with aerosol
             administration.

          -  History of a major adverse reaction to pentamidine defined by absolute neutropenia, <
             750 polymorphonuclear leukocytes plus bands; thrombocytopenia, < 40000 platelets;
             creatinine rise, > 3.0 mg/dl; liver function abnormalities, SGOT or SGPT > 5 x
             normal; hypoglycemia, < 50 mg/dl; rash, exfoliative or mucositis; cough, unremitting
             cough or bronchospasm uncontrolled by bronchodilator preventing > 50 percent of dose
             delivered for > 2 days.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Zidovudine.

        Patients unable to cooperate with aerosol administration are excluded.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

        - Another antiprotozoal regimen for this episode. Unable to complete therapy or follow-up
        for social reasons in the opinion of the investigator.
      
