TITLE:
A Study of Spiramycin in the Treatment of Patients With AIDS-Related Diarrhea

CONDITION:
Cryptosporidiosis

INTERVENTION:
Spiramycin

SUMMARY:

      To determine the safety and effectiveness of intravenous spiramycin in patients with
      AIDS-related cryptosporidial diarrhea.

      Spiramycin, a macrolide antibiotic, has been studied in the United States for the treatment
      of cryptosporidial diarrhea. Some reports suggest that spiramycin is useful in improving the
      symptoms of cryptosporidial diarrhea in some patients. Results of one study, however, showed
      no significant difference between spiramycin and placebo (inactive medication). A later
      study indicated that the absorption of spiramycin is significantly decreased when food is
      present. Thus, the results of the trial may have been due to poor absorption of spiramycin.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Spiramycin, a macrolide antibiotic, has been studied in the United States for the treatment
      of cryptosporidial diarrhea. Some reports suggest that spiramycin is useful in improving the
      symptoms of cryptosporidial diarrhea in some patients. Results of one study, however, showed
      no significant difference between spiramycin and placebo (inactive medication). A later
      study indicated that the absorption of spiramycin is significantly decreased when food is
      present. Thus, the results of the trial may have been due to poor absorption of spiramycin.

      Patients are observed for 3 days to establish baseline conditions. They are informed that
      the treatment period is 21 days during which they receive 15 days of spiramycin and 6
      consecutive days of placebo; they are not told which 6-day period they receive placebo. All
      patients receive 15 days of spiramycin. Patients who do not have a favorable response are
      treated with a higher dose of spiramycin for an additional 15 days. Responders at either
      dose are followed weekly for 4 weeks. Should a relapse occur, patients receive an additional
      15 days of therapy, at the dose of spiramycin that initially produced a response, following
      reestablishment of a baseline with 6 days of placebo. Nonresponders to the higher dose are
      taken off the study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Vitamin supplements.

          -  Zidovudine (AZT) for patients previously taking AZT. However, dosing with spiramycin
             should be delayed until the dose of AZT has stabilized. The dose may be decreased for
             AZT-associated toxicity.

        Allowed for diarrhea:

          -  Loperamide hydrochloride capsules (2 mg) or loperamide hydrochloride liquid (1 mg/5
             ml).

        Allowed for nausea:

          -  Sucralfate and metoclopramide hydrochloride.

        Allowed for vomiting:

          -  Prochlorperazine and trimethobenzamide hydrochloride.

          -  Allowed as prophylaxis for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP):

          -  Aerosolized pentamidine.

        Patients must have:

          -  A diagnosis of AIDS according to the CDC.

          -  Chronic diarrhea.

          -  Presence of Cryptosporidium oocysts in stool specimen. Patients or a legally
             authorized representative must sign an informed consent form. Diet will be lactose
             free, maximum 7 g fat/day with unlimited calorie intake. Patients who require total
             parenteral nutrition will also be allowed oral intake.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Grade 4 (for hematologic) or Grade 3 (for all other) toxicity.

          -  Known sensitivity to macrolide antibiotics.

          -  Presence of other diarrhea-causing pathogens.

          -  Active opportunistic infection requiring systemic antimicrobial therapy.

          -  Toxicity grades according to NIAID toxicity scale for adults.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Other investigational drugs.

          -  Cancer chemotherapy.

          -  Alpha interferon.

          -  Other immunomodulating agents.

          -  Other macrolide antibiotics.

          -  Trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole.

          -  Ganciclovir.

          -  H2 blockers and AL-721.

          -  Medications known to cause gastrointestinal irritation or alteration of
             gastrointestinal motility or absorption should be avoided if possible.

          -  Zidovudine (AZT) therapy may not be initiated and the dose may not be increased
             during the study.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Grade 4 (for hematologic) or Grade 3 (for all other) toxicity.

          -  Known sensitivity to macrolide antibiotics.

          -  Presence of other diarrhea-causing pathogens.

          -  Active opportunistic infection requiring systemic antimicrobial therapy.

          -  Toxicity grades according to NIAID toxicity scale for adults.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 7 days of study entry:

          -  Investigational drugs.

        Excluded within 14 days of study entry:

          -  Cancer chemotherapy.

          -  Alpha interferon.

          -  Other immunomodulating agents.

          -  Other macrolide antibiotics.

          -  Trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole.

          -  Ganciclovir.
      
