TITLE:
The Effects of Prednisone on HIV Levels and the Immune System

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Prednisone

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to see if it is safe and effective to give prednisone to
      HIV-infected patients.

      Prednisone is a corticosteroid, a hormone produced by the body that inhibits immune cell
      responses. Prednisone may be able to lower the level of HIV in the body (viral load) by
      reducing the number of cells that HIV can infect. At the same time, prednisone may be able
      to increase CD4 cell counts (cells of the immune system that fight infection).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      By inhibiting cellular activation, corticosteroids such as prednisone may inhibit HIV
      expression and reduce the population of potentially infectable cells. Furthermore, no
      studies have been performed to systematically evaluate immune function in
      prednisone-treated, HIV-infected patients or the immune mechanisms that may facilitate
      increases in CD4+ cell number. This study explores this issue.

      Patients are separated into 2 arms according to whether or not they are currently receiving
      a protease inhibitor (PI) as part of their antiretroviral (ARV) therapy regimen (PI vs no PI
      therapy). Arm I: Current stable ARV therapy plus prednisone for 8 weeks, followed by 4 weeks
      at half the prior dose, then a 2-week taper. Arm II: Current stable ARV therapy plus
      prednisone placebo for 12 weeks.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        You may be eligible for this study if you:

          -  Are HIV-positive.

          -  Have a CD4 cell count of 200-600 cells/mm3 within 30 days of study entry. (This study
             has been changed. You now must have a CD4 cell count of 200-700 cells/mm3 within 45
             days of study entry.)

          -  Have had your viral load measured within 30 days of study entry.

          -  Have been on stable anti-HIV therapy with at least two anti-HIV agents for at least
             12 weeks, and you intend to remain on this therapy during the study.

          -  Are at least 18 years of age.

          -  Agree to abstain from sex or use effective methods of birth control during the study
             and for 30 days after.

        Exclusion Criteria

        You will not be eligible for this study if you:

          -  Abuse alcohol or drugs or have a serious psychological condition.

          -  Are allergic to prednisone or other corticosteroids.

          -  Have a history of opportunistic (AIDS-related) infections, including cytomegalovirus
             (CMV), Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), or Kaposi's sarcoma (KS).

          -  Have a history of a serious medical condition, including heart problems, tuberculosis
             (TB), cancer, diabetes, or osteoporosis.

          -  Are being treated for herpes at study entry.

          -  Have received certain medications, including blood pressure medication.

          -  Are pregnant or breast-feeding.
      
