TITLE:
An Open-Label, Pilot Study to Evaluate the Development of Resistance to Nevirapine (BI-RG-587) in HIV-Infected Patients With CD4 Cell Count >= 500/mm3

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Nevirapine

SUMMARY:

      Primary: To evaluate the rate of development of resistance to nevirapine in HIV-1 infected
      individuals. To evaluate safety of nevirapine in HIV-1 infected individuals with CD4 counts
      greater than or equal to 500 cells/mm3.

      Secondary: To evaluate the effect of nevirapine on surrogate markers. The anti-HIV agent
      nevirapine is associated with rapid emergence of resistance when administered alone or in
      combination with zidovudine to HIV-infected patients with CD4 counts <= 400 cells/mm3. In
      persons with less advanced HIV disease and less viral burden, the emergence of resistance
      may be delayed, thus permitting evaluation for beneficial effect in a population where there
      is currently no established therapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The anti-HIV agent nevirapine is associated with rapid emergence of resistance when
      administered alone or in combination with zidovudine to HIV-infected patients with CD4
      counts <= 400 cells/mm3. In persons with less advanced HIV disease and less viral burden,
      the emergence of resistance may be delayed, thus permitting evaluation for beneficial effect
      in a population where there is currently no established therapy.

      Ten patients receive nevirapine daily for 12 weeks. After 12 weeks of therapy, patients in
      whom resistance was not evident at week 4 and who have an adequate safety profile continue
      receiving nevirapine for an additional 12 weeks. Clinical and immunological assessments are
      performed at weeks 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, and 24. Virological assessments are performed at week
      24 only. If 50 percent of patients develop resistance at any time, the study is
      discontinued.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  Positive serum antibody to HIV-1 by ELISA or Western blot.

          -  CD4 count >= 500 cells/mm3 within 2 months prior to study entry, with two additional
             counts averaging >= 450 cells/mm3 at baseline and on study day 0 (taken at least 48
             hours apart).

          -  No AIDS-defining disease.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms and conditions are excluded:

          -  More than four loose stools per day.

          -  Participation in other experimental trials including vaccine trials.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Other approved or investigational antiretroviral agents, other investigational
             agents, or vaccines.

          -  Glucocorticoids and steroid hormones.

          -  Dicumarol, warfarin, and other anticoagulants.

          -  Digitoxin.

          -  Valproic acid.

          -  Tolbutamide.

          -  Doxycycline.

          -  Chloramphenicol.

          -  Phenobarbital and other barbiturates.

        Excluded 4 hours before or after a nevirapine dose:

          -  Antacids (particularly those containing calcium carbonate).

          -  H-2 blockers, carafate, cholestyramine resin, alcohol and alcohol-containing
             substances, and benzodiazepines (e.g., diazepam, triazolam).

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of clinically important disease other than HIV infection.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 1 month prior to study entry:

          -  Any immunosuppressive, immunomodulatory, or cytotoxic treatment.

        Use of drugs or alcohol sufficient to impair compliance with protocol requirements.
      
