TITLE:
Subcutaneously Administered Aldesleukin ( Interleukin-2; IL-2 ) Therapy in HIV-Infected Patients

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Aldesleukin

SUMMARY:

      To compare the effects of low-dose versus high-dose subcutaneous ( SC ) aldesleukin (
      interleukin-2; IL-2 ) on immunologic and virologic markers in HIV-infected patients. To
      compare the effects of monthly versus bimonthly administration of SC IL-2 on these markers.

      Interleukin-2 is a protein that is naturally produced by lymphocytes. In an initial study,
      patients in an earlier stage of HIV-1 infection tended to tolerate SC IL-2 better than those
      with more advanced infections, and those with higher baseline CD4+ counts tended to derive
      the greatest benefit.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Interleukin-2 is a protein that is naturally produced by lymphocytes. In an initial study,
      patients in an earlier stage of HIV-1 infection tended to tolerate SC IL-2 better than those
      with more advanced infections, and those with higher baseline CD4+ counts tended to derive
      the greatest benefit.

      Patients are randomized to one of four treatment arms; patients receive either low-dose or
      high-dose SC IL-2 for 5 days either on a monthly or bimonthly schedule for approximately 6
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV positivity.

          -  CD4 count >= 500 cells/mm3.

          -  No history of AIDS-defining opportunistic infection, or malignancy other than
             mucocutaneous Kaposi's sarcoma.

        Concurrent Medication: Required:

          -  Concurrent FDA-approved antiretroviral therapy (AZT, ddI, ddC, d4T).

        Prior Medication: Required:

          -  FDA-approved antiretroviral therapy for at least 6 weeks prior to study entry.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Significant cardiac, pulmonary, thyroid, renal, or CNS disease.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Prior IL-2.

          -  Systemic corticosteroids, chemotherapy, or experimental therapy within 4 weeks prior
             to study entry.
      
