TITLE:
A Phase I Safety and Immunogenicity Trial of UBI HIV Lipopeptide Vaccine Component P3C541b in HIV-1 Seronegative Human Subjects

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
P3C541b Lipopeptide

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate an HIV synthetic lipopeptide candidate vaccine component, P3C541b, at two dose
      levels, administered subcutaneously (s.c.) in a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled
      study.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The prospective volunteers will be screened and HLA typed for Class I MHC haplotypes. Only
      volunteers possessing HLA alleles A33, B8, B27, B35 or Bw62 or any combination thereof will
      be enrolled in the study. Subjects will be allocated to 1 of 2 study groups. Group 1 will
      receive 70 mcg of P3C541b or the placebo and Group II will receive 350 mcg of P3C541b or the
      placebo. NOTE: Enrollment for Group II wil not begin until at least 5 Group I participants
      have reached day 14 without serious adverse events.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have or be:

          -  Healthy

          -  Negative ELISA for HIV.

          -  One or more HLA alleles:

          -  A33, B8, B27, B35, or Bw62.

          -  Negative for Hepatitis B surface antigen.

          -  Normal urine dipstick.

          -  Normal history and physical examination.

          -  Availability for follow-up planned duration of the study (12 months).

          -  Viable EBV line prior to enrollment.

        Risk behavior: Required:

          -  Lower risk sexual behavior as defined by AVEG.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with any of the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Medical or psychiatric condition or occupational responsibilities, which preclude
             subject compliance with the protocol (e.g., recent suicidal ideation or present
             psychosis).

          -  Active syphilis. NOTE: If the serology is documented to be false positive due to a
             remote (> 6 months) treated infection, the volunteer is eligible.

          -  Hepatitis B surface antigenemia.

          -  Active tuberculosis. NOTE: Volunteers with a positive PPD and a normal chest X-Ray
             showing no evidence of TB and not requiring INH therapy are eligible.

        Patients with any of the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of immunodeficiency, chronic illness, malignancy, autoimmune disease.

          -  History of cancer, unless there has been surgical excision followed by a sufficient
             observation period to give a reasonable assurance of a cure.

          -  History of anaphylaxis or history of other serious adverse reactions to vaccines.

          -  History of serious allergic reaction to any substance, requiring hospitalization or
             emergent medical care.

          -  History of suicide attempts or past psychosis.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  History of use of immunosuppressive medication.

          -  Live attenuated vaccines within 60 days of study.

        NOTE:

          -  Medically indicated subunit or killed vaccines (e.g., influenza, pneumococcal) are
             not exclusionary but should be given at least 2 weeks away from HIV immunizations.

          -  Use of experimental agents within 30 days prior to study.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Receipt of blood products or immunoglobulin in the past 6 months.

        Risk Behavior:

        Excluded:

          -  Subjects with identifiable higher risk behavior for HIV infection as determined by
             screening questionnaire designed to identify risk factors for HIV infection.

          -  History of injection drug use within the last 12 months prior to enrollment.

          -  Higher or intermediate risk sexual behavior as defined by AVEG.
      
