TITLE:
A Phase I Multicenter, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial to Evaluate the Safety and Immunogenicity of HIV-1 Recombinant Envelope Glycoprotein gp160

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Hepatitis B Vaccine (Recombinant)

SUMMARY:

      To determine the reactivity and safety of HIV-1 recombinant envelope glycoprotein gp160. To
      determine the immunogenicity of gp160.

      Although recent advances have been made in antiviral therapy against AIDS, there is
      currently no cure. It is likely that ultimate control of the disease will depend on the
      development of safe and effective vaccines against HIV.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Although recent advances have been made in antiviral therapy against AIDS, there is
      currently no cure. It is likely that ultimate control of the disease will depend on the
      development of safe and effective vaccines against HIV.

      Healthy volunteers are injected on days 0, 30, and 180 with one of four preparations: gp160
      vaccine (40 mcg), gp160 vaccine (80 mcg), hepatitis B vaccine, and placebo. The hepatitis B
      vaccine group will serve as an additional control for immunological evaluations. An optional
      fourth injection may be given 15-21 months following the initial inoculation.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Subjects must have:

          -  Normal history and physical exam.

          -  Negative for HIV infection by ELISA and Western blot (i.e., no reactivity at gp160,
             gp120, gp41, or p24).

          -  T4 count >= 800 cells/mm3.

          -  Normal chest x-ray and urinalysis.

          -  Negative surface antibody and core antibody for hepatitis B.

          -  Negative hepatitis B surface antigen.

          -  Negative HIV p24 antigen test.

          -  Normal skin reactivity by Merieux test.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Subjects with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Positive PPD.

          -  Syphilis, gonorrhea, or any other sexually transmitted diseases (including chlamydia
             or pelvic inflammatory disease).

        Subjects with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of immunodeficiency, chronic illness, or use of immunosuppressive
             medications.

          -  Prior hepatitis B vaccination.

          -  Syphilis, gonorrhea, or any other sexually transmitted diseases (including chlamydia
             or pelvic inflammatory disease) in the past 6 months.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Prior hepatitis B vaccine.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Prior blood transfusions or cryoprecipitates within the past 6 months.

        Identifiable high-risk behavior for HIV infection (as determined by prescreening questions
        designed to identify risk factors for HIV infection), including:

          -  Any history of IV drug use.

          -  Syphilis, gonorrhea, or any other sexually transmitted diseases (including chlamydia
             or pelvic inflammatory disease) in the past 6 months.

          -  More than two sexual partners, or sexual contact with a high-risk partner, in the
             past 6 months.
      
