TITLE:
Phase II Trial of Sequential Chemotherapy and Radiotherapy for AIDS-Related Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma

CONDITION:
Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin

INTERVENTION:
Filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      To estimate the response rate, overall and disease-free survival, toxicities, factors
      associated with outcome, and effect on quality of life in patients with AIDS-related primary
      CNS lymphoma treated with CHOD (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and
      dexamethasone) plus filgrastim (granulocyte-colony stimulating factor; G-CSF) and external
      beam irradiation. To determine other clinical markers present in this patient population.

      Combined modality therapy may prove of benefit for patients with AIDS-related primary CNS
      lymphoma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Combined modality therapy may prove of benefit for patients with AIDS-related primary CNS
      lymphoma.

      Patients who upon staging workup are found to be without systemic involvement undergo one
      cycle of chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, dexamethasone, and
      G-CSF. Cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and vincristine are administered intravenously on day
      1. Dexamethasone is administered intravenously on day 1 and then orally thereafter with
      gradual discontinuation. G-CSF is administered subcutaneously daily beginning on day 2 and
      continuing for a total of 10 days or until blood counts have recovered to an acceptable
      level. Patients with evidence of cancer cells in their cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) will
      receive chemotherapy with intrathecal cytarabine twice weekly until no further evidence of
      cancer cells is found in the CSF, then once weekly for 6 weeks, and then monthly for 10
      months. Seven to ten days following completion of one cycle of chemotherapy, patients
      undergo radiotherapy to the brain at a dose of 2.5 Gy daily for 5 days per week for
      approximately 4 weeks. Total dose to the whole brain and meninges is 30.0 Gy in 12
      fractions, and total dose to the primary boost volume is 10.0 Gy in 4 fractions. During
      therapy, blood is drawn weekly and brain scans are performed every 3-12 weeks. An initial
      CSF sample will be obtained by lumbar puncture.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication: Required:

          -  PCP prophylaxis with Bactrim, dapsone, or aerosolized pentamidine.

          -  Oral candidiasis prophylaxis with fluconazole, ketoconazole, or clotrimazole oral
             troches.

          -  Antiretroviral agent available by therapy IND.

          -  MAI prophylaxis with rifabutin (in patients with CD4 counts < 100 cells/mm3).

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV infection.

          -  Primary CNS lymphoma with NO systemic involvement.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Prior corticosteroids.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Concomitant malignancy other than Kaposi's sarcoma, curatively treated carcinoma in
             situ of the cervix, or squamous or basal cell carcinoma of the skin.

          -  Active uncontrolled infection.

          -  Renal failure, active nonmalignant duodenal ulcer, uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, or
             other serious medical conditions that would preclude aggressive cytotoxic
             chemotherapy administration.

          -  Active heart disease (congestive heart failure or heart block greater than first
             degree on EKG).

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Any investigational agent other than antiretroviral agents available by therapy IND.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  No prior malignancy other than Kaposi's sarcoma, curatively treated carcinoma in situ
             of the cervix, or squamous cell or basal cell carcinoma of the skin.

          -  No new infectious complications within the past 2 weeks that require a change in
             antibiotics.

          -  History of myocardial infarction within the past 3 months.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Prior chemotherapy other than for Kaposi's sarcoma.
      
