TITLE:
A Pilot Study Evaluating Penicillin G and Ceftriaxone as Therapies for Presumed Neurosyphilis in HIV Seropositive Individuals

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Penicillin G potassium

SUMMARY:

      To provide information on the response of HIV infected, neurosyphilis patients to the
      currently recommended treatment for neurosyphilis; to determine whether possible
      co-infection with both HIV and syphilis makes more difficult the diagnosis of syphilis; to
      explore the usefulness of an alternative treatment which, if effective, would permit
      outpatient treatment for neurosyphilis that until now required prolonged hospitalization.

      Studies suggest that syphilis treatment failures may be more common in HIV infected patients
      than in patients without HIV infection and that treatment failures occur due to and/or are
      displayed as central nervous system (CNS) involvement. Very little is known about the best
      treatment course for neurosyphilis in patients who are also infected with HIV.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Studies suggest that syphilis treatment failures may be more common in HIV infected patients
      than in patients without HIV infection and that treatment failures occur due to and/or are
      displayed as central nervous system (CNS) involvement. Very little is known about the best
      treatment course for neurosyphilis in patients who are also infected with HIV.

      HIV infected patients who are presumed to have neurosyphilis or have definitive
      neurosyphilis are treated for the neurosyphilis with either penicillin G or ceftriaxone.
      Patients are treated for 10 days and followed for 50 weeks after treatment. Patients
      receiving penicillin G are hospitalized while receiving the penicillin. Patients receiving
      ceftriaxone are treated on an inpatient basis for at least the first three days and may then
      be discharged to receive outpatient treatment. During treatment, patients are permitted to
      take antiretroviral drugs or other drugs for opportunistic infections except for drugs that
      are antisyphilitic. Lumbar punctures will be performed.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Antiretroviral drugs.

          -  Concurrent treatment for opportunistic infections with non-antisyphilitic drugs.

          -  Metronidazole, aminoglycosides, trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole (TMP / SMX),
             polymyxin, vancomycin, dapsone, pentamidine, acyclovir, antifungals, clindamycin,
             immunomodulators, and quinolones.

        Patients must:

          -  Have HIV infection.

          -  Have presumable or documented neurosyphilis.

          -  Be capable of giving informed consent.

          -  Have life expectancy of at least 52 weeks.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  History of penicillin or cephalosporin immediate hypersensitivity reaction
             characterized by angioneurotic edema, hyperemia, urticaria, bronchospasm, and/or
             anaphylaxis.

          -  History of mucosal or blistering rash in response to related treatment.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Antitreponemal therapy (amoxicillin, doxycycline, tetracycline hydrochloride,
             erythromycin, procaine penicillin, any beta lactam, or chloramphenicol).

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Other etiology of cerebrospinal (CSF) abnormalities other than HIV and syphilis
             infection in patients who present with clinical symptoms (this is not required in
             asymptomatic patients).

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Treatment for syphilis within 1 year prior to study entry.

          -  Antitreponemal therapy (amoxicillin, doxycycline, tetracycline hydrochloride,
             erythromycin, procaine penicillin, any beta lactam, or chloramphenicol) within 45
             days prior to study entry.

        Unwilling or unable to comply with follow-up schedule, including repeat lumbar punctures.
      
