TITLE:
A Phase I/II Study of Hyperimmune IVIG in Slowing Progression of Disease in HIV-Infected Children

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Anti-HIV Immune Serum Globulin (Human)

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the safety, tolerance, pharmacokinetics, and antiviral activity of human
      anti-HIV immune serum globulin ( HIVIG ) at three dosage levels in HIV-infected children.

      Passive antibody therapy has been used with limited success in treating advanced HIV disease
      in adults. HIVIG is manufactured from HIV antibody-rich plasma taken from asymptomatic
      donors. It is hypothesized that HIVIG will decrease the viral burden of moderately advanced
      HIV-positive children.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Passive antibody therapy has been used with limited success in treating advanced HIV disease
      in adults. HIVIG is manufactured from HIV antibody-rich plasma taken from asymptomatic
      donors. It is hypothesized that HIVIG will decrease the viral burden of moderately advanced
      HIV-positive children.

      Children are randomized to receive HIVIG every 4 weeks for 6 months at one of three dose
      levels, then are followed for 3 months after the final infusion.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 2 Years to 12 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Required:

          -  PCP prophylaxis according to CDC guidelines.

        Allowed:

          -  Varicella-zoster immunoglobulin.

          -  Hepatitis B immunoglobulin.

          -  Prophylactic therapies not involving immunoglobulin.

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV infection.

          -  CD4 count > 200 cells/mm3 (ages 2-5 years) or > 100 cells/mm3 (age > 5 years).

          -  Antiretroviral therapy for at least 6 months, with no change in regimen for at least
             3 months prior to study entry.

          -  Plasma ICD p24 >= 70 pg/ml that is stable or increasing prior to study entry.

          -  Life expectancy of at least 6 months.

        Prior Medication: Required:

          -  Antiretroviral therapy for at least 6 months, with stable dose for at least 3 months.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Severe diarrhea, nephrotic syndrome, or other protein-losing state that requires
             large doses of IVIG.

          -  Any other condition requiring dosing with IVIG (e.g., ITP, hypogammaglobulinemia).

          -  Acute illness with temperature >= 100 F and/or with IV antibiotics.

          -  Grade 3 or worse clinical toxicities.

          -  Unable to tolerate IV infusions at a minimum rate of 0.02 ml/kg/min.

          -  Concomitant participation in an experimental antiretroviral or HIV vaccine trial.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  IVIG.

          -  Chemotherapy for an active malignancy.

          -  MMR or rubella vaccinations.

          -  Intramuscular immunoglobulin.

        Patients with the following prior condition are excluded:

          -  History of severe reaction to IVIG.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  IVIG within the past 60 days.

          -  Chemotherapy for an active malignancy within the past year.

          -  MMR or rubella vaccinations within the past 6 months.

          -  Intramuscular immunoglobulin within the past 60 days.

        Ongoing drug or alcohol abuse.
      
