TITLE:
The Efficacy of a Standardized Acupuncture Regimen and Amitriptyline Compared With Placebo as a Treatment for Pain Caused by Peripheral Neuropathy in HIV-Infected Patients

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Amitriptyline hydrochloride

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the separate and combined efficacy of a standardized acupuncture regimen and
      amitriptyline on the relief of pain due to peripheral neuropathy and on the quality of life
      of HIV-infected patients.

      Both amitriptyline, an antidepressant, and acupuncture, a Chinese medical approach that uses
      needles to relieve pain, have been used successfully to reduce pain in some people. It is
      not known how effectively these approaches relieve or reduce pain in patients with
      peripheral neuropathy secondary to HIV infection.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Both amitriptyline, an antidepressant, and acupuncture, a Chinese medical approach that uses
      needles to relieve pain, have been used successfully to reduce pain in some people. It is
      not known how effectively these approaches relieve or reduce pain in patients with
      peripheral neuropathy secondary to HIV infection.

      Patients are randomized to receive either standardized point acupuncture or alternate point
      acupuncture treatment twice weekly for the first 6 weeks, then once weekly for the next 8
      weeks, plus either oral amitriptyline or placebo daily for the entire 14 weeks. Acupuncture
      points are located on the lower leg. Patients are evaluated at weeks 6 and 14 and are asked
      to keep a daily pain diary.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Antiretroviral therapy.

          -  Nonsystemic treatment of Kaposi's sarcoma.

          -  Maintenance with an existing regimen of analgesic medication or herbal treatment.

        Concurrent Treatment: Required:

          -  Acupuncture.

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV infection.

          -  Lower extremity peripheral neuropathy secondary to HIV infection.

          -  Pain for at least 2 weeks prior to study entry.

          -  Life expectancy of at least 6 months.

        NOTE:

          -  Co-enrollment in other experimental protocols is permitted as long as dual
             participation is allowed in those protocols.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Antiretroviral therapy.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Known allergy to amitriptyline (not applicable for patients at sites using an
             acupuncture only study design).

          -  EKG indicating malignant arrhythmia or cardiac conduction disturbances (not
             applicable for patients at sites using an acupuncture only study design).

          -  Prison incarceration.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Active treatment for an acute opportunistic infection or malignancy (nonsystemic
             treatment of Kaposi's sarcoma is permitted).

          -  Other tricyclic antidepressants.

          -  MAO inhibitors.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded (not applicable for patients at
        sites using an acupuncture only study design):

          -  History of cardiac disease.

          -  History of seizure disorder.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 2 weeks prior to study entry:

          -  MAO inhibitors.

          -  Tricyclic antidepressants.
      
