TITLE:
Treatment of Acyclovir-Resistant Mucocutaneous Herpes Simplex Disease in Patients With AIDS: Open Label Pilot Study of Topical Trifluridine

CONDITION:
Herpes Simplex

INTERVENTION:
Trifluridine

SUMMARY:

      To determine the safety, effectiveness, and toxicity of topical (local) trifluridine in
      treating mucocutaneous (at the nasal, oral, vaginal, and anal openings) Herpes simplex virus
      ( HSV ) disease that has shown resistance to acyclovir in HIV-infected patients. HSV
      infection in patients with AIDS is often associated with skin sores and frequent
      recurrences. Treatment with the drug acyclovir results in healing for most patients, but
      repeated treatment sometimes results in resistance of the virus to acyclovir. Thus, when
      this happens, other treatments need to be used. Trifluridine is an antiviral drug that is
      used for the treatment of Herpes infections that occur in the eye. This study attempts to
      determine if trifluridine is useful for treating HSV sores that have not healed after
      treatment with acyclovir.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      HSV infection in patients with AIDS is often associated with skin sores and frequent
      recurrences. Treatment with the drug acyclovir results in healing for most patients, but
      repeated treatment sometimes results in resistance of the virus to acyclovir. Thus, when
      this happens, other treatments need to be used. Trifluridine is an antiviral drug that is
      used for the treatment of Herpes infections that occur in the eye. This study attempts to
      determine if trifluridine is useful for treating HSV sores that have not healed after
      treatment with acyclovir.

      Patients receive at least 10 days (and up to 42 days) of treatment with topical
      trifluridine. Trifluridine is applied in a thin fluid layer that overlaps the edges of the
      lesion. Polymyxin B sulfate/bacitracin zinc ointment is then applied over the trifluridine.
      Lesions are covered by a nonabsorbent dressing. Medication is applied every 8 hours.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication: Included:

          -  All medications deemed essential for best patient care, including zidovudine (AZT),
             Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) prophylaxis, and acute or maintenance therapies
             for other opportunistic infections.

        Patients must have the following:

          -  HIV infection or diagnosis of AIDS.

          -  Mucocutaneous Herpes simplex virus infection.

          -  Ability to give informed consent.

        Allowed:

          -  Patients may be co-enrolled in other ACTG studies except for those in which
             treatments are expected to generate neutropenia. Subjects aged 13 - 17 may be
             enrolled with appropriate consent from parent or guardian.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Acyclovir, ganciclovir, foscarnet, vidarabine or other investigational drugs with
             potential anti-Herpes simplex virus activity.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Previous hypersensitivity reaction to trifluridine, polymyxin B or bacitracin.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Immunomodulators, lymphocyte replacement therapy or biologic response modifiers
             within 14 days prior to study entry.
      
