TITLE:
A Study to Evaluate the Effects of Azithromycin on MAC Disease Prevention in HIV-Positive Patients

CONDITION:
Mycobacterium Avium-intracellulare Infection

INTERVENTION:
Azithromycin

SUMMARY:

      This study is designed to find out whether HIV-positive patients whose immune systems have
      improved after receiving anti-HIV treatment should take azithromycin to prevent
      Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) disease. This study also examines the possibility of
      putting off MAC prevention treatment in patients who respond well to anti-HIV drug therapy.

      Azithromycin is approved for the prevention of MAC disease in people with HIV and low CD4
      cell counts. However, some people who have taken azithromycin have been found to carry
      antibiotic-resistant bacteria (germs that can grow despite the presence of drugs used to
      kill them). It is not known whether the risks associated with taking azithromycin outweigh
      the risk of getting MAC disease.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The need for MAC prophylaxis in advanced HIV disease is recognized. Prophylactic therapy is
      complicated, however, due to drug toxicity, potential drug interactions, patient
      noncompliance with multiagent regimens, microbial drug resistance, and high treatment costs.
      This study assesses the feasibility of deferring MAC prophylaxis in patients whose CD4+ cell
      counts rebound in response to antiretroviral therapy.

      In this double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, patients are randomized to receive
      azithromycin weekly or matching placebo. Patients are switched to open-label azithromycin if
      they have an average CD4+ cell count less than 50 cells/mm3 on 2 consecutive counts obtained
      at least 48 hours apart (preferably no more than 60 days).

      [AS PER AMENDMENT 10/23/97: SUBSTUDY CPCRA 054: A subset of participants of CPCRA 048 have
      oropharyngeal swabs taken at baseline and 4 months after randomization. Antibiotic
      susceptibility tests are then performed on isolates of S. pneumoniae.] [AS PER AMENDMENT
      9/3/99: Participants in protocol version 3.0 are followed for data collection purposes every
      4 months for 18 months until January 31, 2001. Data collection includes CD4 cell counts,
      viral RNA measurements, macrolide susceptibility in MAC isolates, and antibiotic
      susceptibility of isolates from bacterial pneumonia episodes.]
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        You may be eligible for this study if you:

          -  Are HIV-positive.

          -  Have 2 CD4 counts over 100 cells/mm3 at least 30 days apart.

          -  Have a history of CD4 counts under 50 cells/mm3.

          -  Are at least 13 years old (need consent if under 18).

          -  Are in reasonably good health.

          -  Are expected to live for at least 6 months.

          -  Are receiving anti-HIV medications at study entry.

        Exclusion Criteria

        You will not be eligible for this study if you:

          -  Have/had MAC disease.

          -  Have been unable to take azithromycin in the past.

          -  Are on any medications that act against MAC.
      
