TITLE:
A Randomized, Placebo-Controlled, Double-Blinded Phase I Safety and Immunogenicity Trial of Recombinant Envelope Protein, HIV-1 SF-2 rgp120 (BIOCINE), Combined With MF59 in HIV-1 Uninfected Adult Volunteers

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
MF59

SUMMARY:

      To determine the safety and immunogenicity of rgp120/HIV-1SF2 combined with MF59 adjuvant
      emulsion versus MF59 alone in HIV-negative volunteers.

      One approach to improve the immunogenicity of an HIV-1 subunit protein vaccine is to combine
      the immunogen with an adjuvant.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      One approach to improve the immunogenicity of an HIV-1 subunit protein vaccine is to combine
      the immunogen with an adjuvant.

      Healthy volunteers receive intramuscular injections of rgp120/HIV-1SF2 with MF59 adjuvant
      emulsion or MF59 alone at months 0, 1, 6, 9, 10 and 12 (was months 0, 1, 6 and 10, amended
      12/19/96).
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Volunteers must have:

          -  Normal history and physical exam.

          -  HIV negativity.

          -  Absolute CD4 count >= 400 cells/mm3.

          -  Normal urine dipstick with esterase and nitrite.

          -  Lower risk sexual behavior.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Subjects with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Positive hepatitis B surface antigen.

          -  Medical or psychiatric condition (such as recent suicidal ideation or present
             psychosis) that precludes compliance.

          -  Active syphilis. NOTE: Subjects with serology documented to be a false positive or
             due to a remote (> 6 months) treated infection are eligible.

          -  Active tuberculosis. NOTE: Subjects with a positive PPD and a normal chest x-ray
             showing no evidence of TB and not requiring isoniazid therapy are eligible.

        Subjects with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of immunodeficiency, chronic illness, autoimmune disease, or use of
             immunosuppressive medications.

          -  History of anaphylaxis or other serious adverse reactions to vaccines.

          -  History of serious allergic reaction to any substance, requiring hospitalization or
             emergent medical care (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome, bronchospasm, or hypotension).

          -  Prior psychiatric condition (such as history of suicide attempts or past psychosis)
             that precludes compliance.

          -  History of cancer unless there has been surgical excision that is considered to have
             achieved cure.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Live attenuated vaccines within 60 days prior to study entry. NOTE: Medically
             indicated killed or subunit vaccines (e.g., influenza, pneumococcal) do not exclude
             if administered at least 2 weeks from HIV immunizations.

          -  Experimental agents within 30 days prior to study entry.

          -  Prior HIV vaccines.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Blood products or immunoglobulin within the past 6 months.

        Identifiable high-risk behavior for HIV infection, including:

          -  History of injection drug use within past 12 months.

          -  Higher risk sexual behavior.
      
