TITLE:
A Phase I/II Open-Labelled Trial of Intravitreal Ganciclovir Salvage Therapy for AIDS Patients With Active CMV Retinitis Who Are Intolerant of Systemic Therapy

CONDITION:
Cytomegalovirus Retinitis

INTERVENTION:
Ganciclovir

SUMMARY:

      AMENDED: 04-12-91 Population of patients changed FROM those who are intolerant of systemic
      therapy with NON-sight-threatening CMV retinitis TO those AIDS patients intolerant of
      systemic therapy with CMV retinitis.

      AMENDED: 8/8/90. Changes made in neutrophils count from < 500 to < 750 cells/mm3.
      Nonrandomized eyes will not be used for the primary efficacy evaluation.

      ORIGINAL DESIGN: To determine the effectiveness and safety of ganciclovir (DHPG) therapy in
      AIDS patients suffering from active cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection of the retina of the eye
      (retinitis) when the drug is administered directly into the fluid-filled vitreous cavity of
      the eye by injection.

      CMV retinitis is the most frequently seen opportunistic infection of the eye in AIDS
      patients, and left untreated can lead to severe visual loss and blindness. While systemic
      administration of DHPG has been shown to be an effective treatment for CMV retinitis, the
      chronic administration required may be complicated by decreased blood cell counts
      (granulocytopenia) which may require discontinuation of treatment. While withholding
      treatment may allow recovery from the granulocytopenia, interruption of therapy may result
      in reactivation of the retinitis. Injection of DHPG into the vitreous cavity of the eye may
      be of benefit to severely neutropenic patients with CMV retinitis.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      CMV retinitis is the most frequently seen opportunistic infection of the eye in AIDS
      patients, and left untreated can lead to severe visual loss and blindness. While systemic
      administration of DHPG has been shown to be an effective treatment for CMV retinitis, the
      chronic administration required may be complicated by decreased blood cell counts
      (granulocytopenia) which may require discontinuation of treatment. While withholding
      treatment may allow recovery from the granulocytopenia, interruption of therapy may result
      in reactivation of the retinitis. Injection of DHPG into the vitreous cavity of the eye may
      be of benefit to severely neutropenic patients with CMV retinitis.

      Patients must have active CMV retinitis in one or both eyes, despite prior systemic therapy.
      Following medical evaluation, the decision is made whether to treat the eye(s) immediately
      or to watch the eye(s) carefully for advancement of the retinitis. Eyes with
      sight-threatening lesions or eyes without functional vision are treated immediately and eyes
      without sight-threatening lesions are randomly chosen for either immediate or deferred
      therapy. DHPG is given by injection with a very fine needle twice a week for the first 3
      weeks and once a week for the remaining 24 weeks.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to 65 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Zidovudine (AZT).

          -  AMENDED: 8/8/90 Other available antiretroviral therapy.

          -  Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) prophylaxis, either systemic or local
             (aerosolized).

          -  Chemotherapy for Kaposi's sarcoma.

          -  Systemic therapy for intercurrent opportunistic infections.

          -  Acyclovir or other treatment of Herpes simplex virus (HSV) or Varicella zoster virus
             (VZV) infections.

          -  Systemic therapy deemed necessary for appropriate medical management.

        Patients must have AIDS and cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis in at least one eye, diagnosed
        by an ophthalmologist and verified by fundoscopy and fundus photography.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Contraindication to intravitreal injection, including obvious external infection and
             vitreous hemorrhage.

          -  Medical opacities of cornea, lens, and/or vitreous which precludes fundus
             photography.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Prophylactic acyclovir at time of study entry.

          -  Other anticytomegalovirus (CMV) therapy, particularly systemic ganciclovir,
             foscarnet, or CMV hyperimmune globulin.

          -  Topical ophthalmic medications should be avoided.

          -  Cytomegalovirus (CMV) therapies and chronic acyclovir, including necessary therapies
             for an intercurrent opportunistic infection.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Contraindication to intravitreal injection, including obvious external infection and
             vitreous hemorrhage.

          -  Medical opacities of cornea, lens, and/or vitreous which precludes fundus
             photography.
      
