TITLE:
A Multicenter Study To Determine Foscarnet Dose Response in HIV Infected Patients With PGL and/or Constitutional Disease

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Foscarnet sodium

SUMMARY:

      To determine the toxicity of low dose foscarnet administered for 4 weeks to HIV infected
      patients who are asymptomatic, have AIDS, or other HIV associated conditions and a CD4+
      lymphocyte count < 500 cells/mm3. To obtain preliminary efficacy data. Although zidovudine
      (AZT) has been effective in treating some AIDS patients, AZT has toxic effects in many
      patients and other means of treating HIV-infected persons need to be evaluated. In vitro
      (test tube) studies have shown that the human herpes viruses are inhibited by foscarnet and
      that a number of retroviruses, including HIV, are sensitive to it. It is hoped that
      treatment of HIV-infected individuals with foscarnet during an early phase of HIV infections
      will reduce the risk of developing AIDS.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Although zidovudine (AZT) has been effective in treating some AIDS patients, AZT has toxic
      effects in many patients and other means of treating HIV-infected persons need to be
      evaluated. In vitro (test tube) studies have shown that the human herpes viruses are
      inhibited by foscarnet and that a number of retroviruses, including HIV, are sensitive to
      it. It is hoped that treatment of HIV-infected individuals with foscarnet during an early
      phase of HIV infections will reduce the risk of developing AIDS.

      Patients are divided into three groups: (1) asymptomatic patients with or without persistent
      generalized lymphadenopathy (PGL) syndrome; (2) patients with AIDS; and (3) patients who
      have or have had mild to moderate signs or symptoms consistent with HIV infection. Patients
      are then randomly chosen to receive one of three different foscarnet doses. The drug is
      given for 4 weeks, by 1-hour infusion administered every 8 hours. In addition, those
      patients who are clinically stable and have not experienced severe toxicity at the end of
      the 4 weeks may continue treatment, in the form of a single daily dose of foscarnet to be
      administered 5 days per week. Blood samples are taken during treatment and at the first,
      fourth, and eighth week after treatment. If the patient is on maintenance, blood samples are
      taken weekly. Effective 7-17-89, patients entering the study are assigned to the lowest
      foscarnet dose. Patients receive daily treatment for 28 days. Patients who are clinically
      stable without severe toxicity at 4 weeks have the option of maintenance therapy with
      foscarnet.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Aerosolized pentamidine for secondary Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP)
             prophylaxis.

          -  Short course therapy with oral acyclovir (ACV) = or < 7 days. Short course therapy
             with ketoconazole = or < 7 days for patients who are not responding to any other
             therapy.

          -  Flurazepam.

          -  Diphenhydramine.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Systemic therapy, prophylaxis or maintenance for an AIDS-defining opportunistic
             infection.

        Patients with any of the following findings may be included:

          -  Asymptomatic HIV patients with or without lymphadenopathy.

          -  Patients with AIDS as defined by the CDC surveillance case definitions.

          -  Patients with past or present mild to moderate signs or symptoms consistent with HIV
             infection.

          -  p24 antigen in the serum = or > 60 pg/ml.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following will be excluded:

          -  Ongoing systemic therapy / prophylaxis / maintenance for an AIDS-defining
             opportunistic infection.

          -  Symptomatic visceral Kaposi's sarcoma (KS), progression of KS within the month prior
             to entry into the study, or with concurrent neoplasms other than KS or basal cell
             carcinoma of the skin or in situ carcinoma of the cervix.

          -  Cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis.

          -  AIDS dementia.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Antiretrovirals.

          -  Immunomodulatory agents.

          -  Corticosteroids Other systemic antiviral or antimicrobial agents.

          -  Experimental medications.

          -  Excluded on chronic basis and discouraged for > 72 hours:

          -  Acetaminophen.

          -  Narcotics.

          -  Aspirin.

        Concurrent Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Transfusion dependency or requirement of 2 units of blood more than once per month.

        Patients with the following will be excluded:

          -  Ongoing systemic therapy / prophylaxis / maintenance for an AIDS-defining
             opportunistic infection.

          -  Symptomatic visceral Kaposi's sarcoma (KS), progression of KS within the month prior
             to entry into the study, or with concurrent neoplasms other than KS or basal cell
             carcinoma of the skin or in situ carcinoma of the cervix.

          -  Cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis.

          -  AIDS dementia.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 30 days of study entry:

          -  Antiretroviral agents (except ribavirin).

          -  Immunomodulatory agents.

          -  Excluded within 60 days of study entry:

          -  Ribavirin.

        The last blood transfusion cannot have been given within 2 weeks of entry.

        Active substance abuse which could impair compliance with the protocol.
      
