TITLE:
A Study to Examine the Effects of Stopping Preventive Therapy for Disseminated Mycobacterium Avium Complex (DMAC) in HIV-Positive Patients

CONDITION:
Mycobacterium Avium-Intracellulare Infection

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of stopping preventive therapy for DMAC
      in HIV-positive patients who (1) have been treated for DMAC for at least 12 months and are
      now free of any signs of DMAC for at least 16 weeks, and (2) have improved immune systems
      (CD4 cell counts greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm3) due to anti-HIV drug therapy.

      DMAC is a serious and sometimes life-threatening infection that usually affects only
      HIV-positive patients with CD4 cell counts (cells of the immune system that fight infection)
      less than 50 cells/mm3. It is recommended that people who are likely to get DMAC be placed
      on preventive medications which help reduce the risk of infection. New anti-HIV combination
      drug therapies can increase CD4 cell counts and can reduce the level of HIV in the blood.
      When CD4 counts are increased, risk of DMAC infection is less. This study examines whether
      it is possible to stop preventive therapy for DMAC when CD4 counts are high without placing
      individuals at risk for getting DMAC again.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      A growing body of evidence suggests AIDS-related morbidity and mortality significantly
      decrease where potent antiretroviral therapies are used. HAART (highly active antiretroviral
      therapy) seems to significantly reduce the incidence of MAC. This study tests the validity
      of those observations.

      Peripheral blood cultures and bone marrow (aspirate) samples from 50 eligible patients
      previously diagnosed with disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex (DMAC) are assessed for
      microbiologic sterilization of MAC at the time of study entry. If either bone marrow or
      blood cultures test positive for MAC, patients are discontinued from study. If cultures
      prove sterile, patients receive 6 weeks of treatment and then discontinue MAC therapy at
      Week 6 (entry into Step 2 of study). They are then monitored for clinical signs and symptoms
      of MAC recurrence and for the presence of mycobacteria in blood cultures. In cases of
      increased viral load during study, modification of antiretroviral therapy is allowed at the
      discretion of the patient's provider.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients may be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are HIV-positive.

          -  Have 2 CD4 cell counts greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm3 within 60 days and 14
             days prior to entry. Measurements must be taken at least 24 hours apart.

          -  Have been treated for DMAC with a drug regimen including at least 2 antimycobacterial
             drugs for at least 12 months, and have been free of symptoms for at least 16 weeks
             prior to study entry.

          -  Have been on anti-HIV therapy for at least 16 weeks and have been on stable anti-HIV
             therapy for at least 8 weeks prior to study entry.

          -  Are at least 13 years old (need consent of parent or guardian if under 18).

        Exclusion Criteria

        Patients will not be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Have any active infection (unless they have been on stable chronic suppressive
             therapy for at least 3 months).

          -  Are pregnant.
      
