TITLE:
Phase I Trial of an Intervention to Increase Condom Use by HIV-Discordant Couples

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Group counseling intervention

SUMMARY:

      To assess the acceptability of and participation in a group counseling intervention,
      including an assessment of willingness to disclose serostatus to a regular sexual partner
      and the willingness of that partner to participate. To evaluate the profile of adverse
      experiences (social, psychological, and physical harms) of individuals resulting from
      participation in counseling and testing and attempts to initiate condom use within a stable
      HIV serodiscordant partnership. To assess the potential for the intervention to result in
      increased condom use among stable sexual partners.

      There is a significant risk of HIV transmission to HIV-uninfected partners in HIV-discordant
      couples. While condom use has been a major component of most AIDS prevention programs since
      the mid-1980s, there has been little emphasis on promoting condom use within stable
      partnerships. The most effective way to promote condom use among discordant couples remains
      largely unknown.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      There is a significant risk of HIV transmission to HIV-uninfected partners in HIV-discordant
      couples. While condom use has been a major component of most AIDS prevention programs since
      the mid-1980s, there has been little emphasis on promoting condom use within stable
      partnerships. The most effective way to promote condom use among discordant couples remains
      largely unknown.

      A pilot study to assess the acceptability of intervention precedes the main study. The Phase
      I study recruits 15 HIV-infected men and 15 HIV-infected women and their partners at each of
      three sites (India, Thailand, and Uganda). Volunteers participate in a multi-session
      group-based condom promotion program for approximately 12 months. Couples are organized into
      small groups consisting of 4 to 6 couples per group. Each group meets for a total of 4
      sessions within a 2- to 4-week period. Follow-up interviews are conducted at Months 1 and 3
      following completion of the intervention.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Volunteers must be:

          -  HIV-positive through HIVNET testing or HIV-seronegative by EIA.

          -  Presently in a sexual relationship of at least 6 months duration with the intention
             to remain with this partner for the duration of the study.

          -  Willing to identify and recruit this sexual partner to which he/she has disclosed or
             will disclose HIV serostatus.

          -  Willing to receive counseling and HIV testing (HIV-seronegative partners only).

          -  Willing to agree to be interviewed with their partner and individually.

          -  Willing to continue engaging in sex with their partner.

          -  Willing to participate in a couples-based condom promotion intervention.

          -  Willing and able to attend each scheduled intervention/follow-up study visit.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Volunteers with the following are excluded:

          -  History of domestic violence.

          -  Current consistent condom use.
      
