TITLE:
A Phase I Study of the Safety and Pharmacokinetics of Recombinant CD4 (rCD4) in Infants and Children Infected With or at Risk for HIV Infection

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
CD4 Antigens

SUMMARY:

      AMENDED: As of 10/19/90 only Children 0 to 3 months are being enrolled. Original design: To
      determine whether the experimental drug recombinant CD4 (rCD4), which is produced through
      genetic engineering technology, is safe and well-tolerated in children infected with or at
      risk for HIV infection.

      rCD4 may be an effective treatment for HIV infection, based on its ability to block
      infection of human cells by HIV in laboratory tests. However, the activity of rCD4 still
      needs to be confirmed in clinical trials. It is hoped that these tests will show that rCD4
      is both safe and effective in treating children who are infected with or who are at risk for
      infection with HIV.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      rCD4 may be an effective treatment for HIV infection, based on its ability to block
      infection of human cells by HIV in laboratory tests. However, the activity of rCD4 still
      needs to be confirmed in clinical trials. It is hoped that these tests will show that rCD4
      is both safe and effective in treating children who are infected with or who are at risk for
      infection with HIV.

      Children have preliminary testing and evaluation to determine eligibility and health. The
      dosage schedule varies with the dose. During the course of the study, children are monitored
      for safety through physical exams and blood tests. They have blood withdrawn to study the
      response to rCD4 and measure the activity of rCD4 in the body. Children may receive
      immunization of DPT (diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus) or DT and a polio vaccine to measure
      their antibody response. If the rCD4 is beneficial, children may continue treatment. The
      study is conducted in four parts:

        -  Part A: Children 13 to 18 years old.

        -  Part B: Children 3 months to less than 13 years old.

        -  Part C: Full-term infants over 3 months old.

        -  Part D: Preterm infants less than 3 months old. Parts C and D are not started until
           parts A and B have been completed.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 18 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Prophylactic medication for patients with previous documented episodes of
             Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP).

          -  Concomitant zidovudine (AZT) or intravenous gamma globulin (IVIG) during maintenance
             therapy phase of the study.

        AMENDED: As of 10/19/90 only Children 0 to 3 months are being enrolled.

        Original design: Patients must be infected with HIV or at risk for HIV infection. They
        must be one of the following:

          -  Asymptomatic.

          -  Mildly symptomatic but not eligible for and/or decline ACTG protocol 052.

          -  Markedly symptomatic but not eligible for and/or decline ACTG protocol 051 or cannot
             tolerate zidovudine (AZT) therapy.

        All patients must have:

          -  A life expectancy of at least 3 months.

          -  A legally-qualified guardian with the ability to sign a written informed consent
             form, which must be obtained prior to treatment. A willingness to abstain from all
             other experimental therapy for HIV infection during the entire study period.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Zidovudine (AZT).

          -  Intravenous gamma globulin (IVIG).

          -  Pentamidine.

          -  Trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX).

          -  Corticosteroids.

          -  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDS).

          -  Other known immunomodulatory agents.

          -  All other experimental therapies.

        Patients will be excluded from the study for the following reasons:

          -  Serious active opportunistic infection or malignancies prior to study entry.

          -  Defined organ insufficiencies.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded within 3 weeks of study entry:

          -  Zidovudine (AZT).

          -  Intravenous gamma globulin.

          -  Cancer chemotherapy.

          -  Immunomodulatory agents.

          -  Other experimental therapy.

        Patients may not have any of the following diseases or symptoms:

          -  Serious active opportunistic infection or malignancies prior to study entry.

          -  Cardiopathy.

          -  Two or more episodes of prior Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP).

          -  Hematologic insufficiency defined as granulocytes = or < 1000 cells/mm3; platelets =
             or < 100000 cells/mm3; hemoglobin = or < 8 g/dl.

          -  Renal insufficiency defined as creatinine > 2 mg/dl; = or > 5 white blood cells or
             red blood cells/hpf or = or > 2+ proteinuria in urine.

          -  Hepatic insufficiency defined as bilirubin = or > 3 x upper limit of normal; SGOT =
             or > 10 upper limit of normal.
      
