TITLE:
A Study of Cytotoxic T Lymphocyte (CTL) Therapy in HIV-Infected Patients

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Lymphocytes, Activated

SUMMARY:

      To define the safety of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) generated from sibling-supplied
      dendritic cells and lymphocytes and infused into an HIV-infected patient. To determine the
      efficacy of these CTLs in helping the immune system to fight HIV.

      With lower CD4 counts, HIV-infected patients may not be able to produce dendritic cells and
      lymphocytes, special types of immune cells that generate HIV-specific CTLs. Infusion of CTLs
      generated from the dendritic cells and lymphocytes of an HIV-negative sibling may enable the
      body to recognize HIV more readily and increase immune response against the virus.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      With lower CD4 counts, HIV-infected patients may not be able to produce dendritic cells and
      lymphocytes, special types of immune cells that generate HIV-specific CTLs. Infusion of CTLs
      generated from the dendritic cells and lymphocytes of an HIV-negative sibling may enable the
      body to recognize HIV more readily and increase immune response against the virus.

      Dendritic cells and lymphocytes are obtained from an HIV-negative sibling. HIV-specific CTLs
      are generated from these cells and then infused into the HIV-infected patient monthly for 6
      months. Siblings must be able to donate on multiple occasions, and patients are followed
      every 2-4 weeks during the study. Patients are screened over 3 months prior to study entry.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  HLA A2+.

          -  Other HLA matching with sibling.

          -  CD4 count 100-350 cells/mm3.

          -  No active opportunistic infection or malignancy (other than cutaneous Kaposi's
             sarcoma).

          -  Current stable antiviral regimen.

          -  Normal lab values and chest x-ray.

        Donor siblings must have:

          -  HLA A2+.

          -  HIV negativity.

          -  Good venous access.

          -  Ability to donate on multiple occasions.

          -  Negative status for hepatitis B and C.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Immunomodulators.

          -  Cytokines.

          -  Systemic steroids.

          -  IV pentamidine.

          -  Investigational drugs.
      
