TITLE:
A Phase I Safety and Immunogenicity Trial of UBI Microparticulate Monovalent HIV-1 MN Peptide Immunogen in HIV-1 Seronegative Human Subjects

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
HIV-1 Peptide Vaccine, Microparticulate Monovalent

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of a new microparticulate formulation of an HIV-1
      MN PND peptide for oral administration in healthy, HIV-1 seronegative adult volunteers at
      low risk for infection.

      Vaccine formulations of synthetic peptides adsorbed to alum may not provide other requisite
      characteristics of an effective HIV vaccine, such as induction of mucosal immunity,
      production of cytotoxic T cells, and ease of administration. An oral microparticulate
      vaccine containing a prototype synthetic peptide has been developed. The microparticles can
      be degraded over time, inducing both secretory and systemic immune responses.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Vaccine formulations of synthetic peptides adsorbed to alum may not provide other requisite
      characteristics of an effective HIV vaccine, such as induction of mucosal immunity,
      production of cytotoxic T cells, and ease of administration. An oral microparticulate
      vaccine containing a prototype synthetic peptide has been developed. The microparticles can
      be degraded over time, inducing both secretory and systemic immune responses.

      Twelve volunteers per dose regimen will receive oral microparticulate multivalent HIV-1
      peptide vaccine at months 0, 1, and 6, either daily as a low dose for 3 days or a single
      higher dose. Additionally, four volunteers per regimen will receive placebo. Volunteers are
      followed for 1 year. They will be contacted once or twice yearly for 5 years to check on
      health status.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Subjects must have:

          -  Normal history and physical exam.

          -  HIV negativity by ELISA within 8 weeks of study entry.

          -  Absolute CD4 count >= 400 cells/mm3.

          -  Normal urine dipstick with esterase and nitrite.

          -  Lower or intermediate risk sexual behavior.

        NOTE:

          -  No more than 10 percent of subjects may be over 50 years of age.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Subjects with the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Positive hepatitis B surface antigen.

          -  Medical or psychiatric condition (such as psychosis or suicidal tendencies) or
             occupational responsibilities that preclude study compliance.

          -  Active syphilis. NOTE: Subjects whose serology is documented to be a false positive
             or due to a remote (> 6 months) treated infection are eligible.

          -  Active tuberculosis. NOTE: Subjects with a positive PPD and normal chest x-ray
             showing no evidence of TB and not requiring isoniazid therapy are eligible.

        Subjects with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of immunodeficiency, chronic illness, or autoimmune disease.

          -  History of anaphylaxis or other serious reactions to vaccines.

          -  History of inflammatory gastrointestinal disease, celiac disease, or intestinal
             malignancy.

          -  History of acute gastroenteritis within the past month or gastrointestinal surgery
             within the past year.

          -  History of cancer unless there has been surgical excision with reasonable assurance
             of cure.

          -  History of serious allergic reaction.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  History of immunosuppressive medications.

          -  Live attenuated vaccines within 60 days prior to study entry (NOTE: Medically
             indicated subunit or killed vaccines, e.g., influenza or pneumococcal, are not
             exclusionary, but should not be given within 2 weeks of HIV immunization).

          -  Experimental agents within 30 days prior to study entry.

          -  Prior HIV vaccines.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Blood products or immunoglobulin within the past 6 months.

        Identifiable higher risk behavior for HIV infection, including the following:

          -  History of injection drug use within the past 12 months.

          -  Higher risk sexual behavior as defined by the AVEG.
      
