TITLE:
Primary Prophylaxis of Cerebral Toxoplasmosis in HIV-Infected Patients

CONDITION:
Toxoplasmosis, Cerebral

INTERVENTION:
Pyrimethamine

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the effectiveness of pyrimethamine (given with leucovorin calcium versus placebo
      (an inactive substance) for the primary prophylaxis (prevention) of cerebral toxoplasmosis
      in HIV-infected patients.

      Cerebral toxoplasmosis is one of the most frequently encountered opportunistic infections in
      the course of AIDS. The mortality (death) rate is estimated to be greater than 50 percent.
      Pyrimethamine is a drug that appears promising for the primary prevention of cerebral
      toxoplasmosis in HIV-infected patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Cerebral toxoplasmosis is one of the most frequently encountered opportunistic infections in
      the course of AIDS. The mortality (death) rate is estimated to be greater than 50 percent.
      Pyrimethamine is a drug that appears promising for the primary prevention of cerebral
      toxoplasmosis in HIV-infected patients.

      AMENDED: 04-04-91 On the first day of therapy, a loading dose is given. After the first day,
      patients take pyrimethamine or placebo 3 times a week. Patients also take leucovorin calcium
      orally three times weekly. Enrollment occurs over approximately 12 months. All patients are
      followed on study until a common study close-out date and final analysis of the study. It is
      anticipated that this common close-out will occur when the mean duration of time on study
      therapy will be 3 years (approximately in January, 1994).

      ORIGINAL design: On the first day of treatment, patients receive a loading dose of
      pyrimethamine or placebo, plus of leucovorin calcium. After the first day, patients take
      pyrimethamine or placebo three times a week. Patients also take folinic acid orally three
      times weekly. The mean duration of study participation is 3 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Zidovudine (AZT), didanosine (ddI), dideoxycytidine (ddC), erythropoietin (Eprex),
             other agents granted Treatment IND or expanded access status.

          -  Investigational triazoles.

          -  Pentamidine for primary prophylaxis of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP).

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  History of cerebral toxoplasmosis or toxoplasmosis infection in any other organ or
             tissue.

          -  Focal neural abnormalities (except peripheral neuropathy) or mass lesions on a
             previous computerized tomography (CT) scan or magnetic resonance image (MRI), unless
             subsequent workup rules out toxoplasmosis, in which case abnormalities must have been
             stable for at least 2 months.

          -  Known or suspected allergy or severe intolerance to study drugs.

        Patients must have:

          -  Positive toxoplasma serology.

          -  HIV infection.

          -  Willingness and ability to comply with the protocol and capability of giving written
             informed consent.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  Current diagnosis of cerebral toxoplasmosis or toxoplasmosis infection in any other
             organ or tissue.

          -  Known or suspected allergy or severe intolerance to study drugs.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Anticoagulants. Other antifolates, sulfonamides, fansidar, macrolides,
             5-fluorouracil, dapsone, or any other agent with known activity against Toxoplasma
             gondii.
      
