TITLE:
A Study to Test the Safety of Recombinant Interleukin-2 (rIL-2) in HIV-Infected Children

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Aldesleukin

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose (the highest
      dose that can be given safely) of recombinant Interleukin-2 (rIL-2) in HIV-infected
      children. This study also evaluates the effect of rIL-2 on the immune system of these
      patients.

      IL-2 is a substance naturally produced by the body's white blood cells that plays an
      important role in helping the body fight infection. HIV-infected patients do not produce
      enough IL-2, and it is hoped that the use of rIL-2 may improve immune system function in
      these patients. First, it is necessary to determine the safety and effectiveness of this
      drug in HIV-infected children.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      According to study records, IL-2 has not been tested in HIV-infected children. Experience
      with IL-2 in pediatric populations is extremely limited. Pahwa et al. gave 30,000 units/kg
      daily IV to a child with severe combined immunodeficiency. This dose was well tolerated and
      the patient improved clinically as well as immunologically. Part A is necessary to determine
      the maximum tolerated dose of IL-2 in infected children. Part B will determine the efficacy
      of the maximum tolerated dose in infected children.

      Part A: Children will receive rIL-2 intravenously for 5 days every 8 weeks for 3 cycles. The
      study will enroll 4 patients in each of 3 dose levels. Dose escalation may occur if all 4
      patients in a dose level tolerate therapy without evidence of Grade 3 (or higher) toxicity.
      If 1 of 4 subjects in any dose level experiences at least Grade 3 toxicity, 2 additional
      patients will be enrolled in that dose level. If 1 of these 2 additional patients
      experiences at least Grade 3 toxicity, dose escalation will not proceed. NOTE: Once Part A
      is completed and the maximum tolerated dose is established, children who participated in
      Part A and received less than the maximum tolerated dose will be offered additional therapy
      consisting of 3 cycles of rIL-2 at the maximum tolerated dose.

      Part B: Children will receive rIL-2 intravenously at the maximum tolerated dose established
      in part A. Treatment will be given for 5 days every 8 weeks for 3 cycles. [AS PER AMENDMENT
      6/4/98: Children will receive rIL-2 intravenously at the lowest dose for 5 days every 8
      weeks for 6 cycles. Patients who received this dose in part A will also be offered this
      regimen.]
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 3 Years to 12 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Children may be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are HIV-positive.

          -  Have decreased immune system functioning (CD4 count 500-1000 for 3- to 5-year-olds or
             CD4 count 200-500 for 6- to 12-year-olds).

          -  Have symptomatic HIV infection.

          -  Have a viral level less than 400 copies/ml.

          -  Are between the ages of 3 and 12 (consent of parent or guardian required).

        Exclusion Criteria

        Children will not be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Have an active opportunistic infection.

          -  Are pregnant.
      
