TITLE:
A Phase I Clinical Trial to Evaluate the Safety and Immunogenicity of 100 mcg of Env 2-3 in MF59

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Env 2-3

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the safety and immune response of 100 mcg Env 2-3 antigen administered on days
      0, 30, 180, and 365.

      Preliminary immunologic data from protocol VEU 005B show evidence of the development of
      functional antibodies in the form of increased peptide binding and development of
      neutralizing antibodies. Evaluation of an antigen dose having potentially greater
      immunogenicity is therefore of particular interest.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Preliminary immunologic data from protocol VEU 005B show evidence of the development of
      functional antibodies in the form of increased peptide binding and development of
      neutralizing antibodies. Evaluation of an antigen dose having potentially greater
      immunogenicity is therefore of particular interest.

      Twelve healthy volunteers receive injections of 100 mcg Env 2-3 in MF59 emulsion and two
      volunteers receive MF59 only on days 0, 30, 180, and 365. Follow-up continues for 6 months
      after the last injection.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Subjects are:

          -  Normal, healthy adults (by history and physical examination) who fully comprehend the
             purpose and details of the study.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Subjects with the following conditions or symptoms are excluded:

          -  Positive syphilis serology (such as VDRL) unless positive test is due to a documented
             clinical event that occurred and was treated 5 or more years prior to enrollment.

          -  Circulating hepatitis B antigenemia.

        Subjects with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  History of immunodeficiency, chronic illness, or autoimmune disease.

          -  Evidence of depression or under treatment for psychiatric problems during the past
             year.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Immunosuppressive medications.

        Prior Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Blood transfusions or cryoprecipitates within the past 6 months.

        Identifiable high-risk behavior for HIV infection, including:

          -  history of intravenous drug use; syphilis, gonorrhea, or any other sexually
             transmitted diseases (including chlamydia or pelvic inflammatory disease) in the last
             6 months; more than two sexual partners, or sexual contact with a high-risk partner,
             in the preceding 6 months.
      
