TITLE:
Safety and Tolerance of Zidovudine With Probenecid and the Effect of Probenecid on Zidovudine Pharmacokinetics Over Four Weeks

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Probenecid

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the interaction of probenecid with zidovudine (AZT). Because AZT is eliminated
      quickly from the body, it must be taken frequently. A previous study showed that probenecid
      slowed the elimination of AZT without side effects, but that study lasted only 5 days. This
      study is to see whether this effect continues for 1 month and whether the continuation of
      probenecid and AZT is free of side effects over 1 month.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Because AZT is eliminated quickly from the body, it must be taken frequently. A previous
      study showed that probenecid slowed the elimination of AZT without side effects, but that
      study lasted only 5 days. This study is to see whether this effect continues for 1 month and
      whether the continuation of probenecid and AZT is free of side effects over 1 month.

      Patients are hospitalized overnight on three separate occasions. On the first admission, AZT
      is administered every 4 hours. On the second day, 15 blood samples are taken to determine
      how fast the AZT enters and is removed from the bloodstream (pharmacokinetics). On the
      second day, after all the blood specimens have been collected, patient starts taking
      probenecid by mouth every 8 hours, and is discharged from the research unit. The AZT dose is
      then taken every 8 hours. One week later and again 3 weeks after that, patient is readmitted
      overnight and the blood sampling to measure AZT levels is repeated. AMENDED: 8 additional
      patients will be enrolled using the same doses of AZT but a lower dose of probenecid.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Interferon.

          -  Aerosolized pentamidine for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) prophylaxis.

        Concurrent Treatment:

        Allowed:

          -  Radiation for skin lesions.

        Patients with symptomatic HIV infection taking zidovudine (AZT) five or six times a day as
        therapy. Includes patients with AIDS who have history of cytologically confirmed
        Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP), patients with advanced AIDS related complex (ARC),
        and HIV antibody positive patients.

        Patients must be able to give written informed consent.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Allergy to probenecid.

          -  Any underlying medical condition sufficient, in the investigator's opinion, to
             prevent adequate compliance with study therapy.

          -  History of urinary tract urate stones or gout.

          -  Becoming acutely ill, unstable, or febrile.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Methotrexate.

          -  Antiretroviral drugs.

          -  Ganciclovir.

          -  Amphotericin.

          -  Experimental drugs.

          -  Isoniazid.

          -  Pyrazinamide.

          -  Flucytosine.

          -  Intravenous pentamidine.

          -  Dapsone.

          -  Fansidar.

          -  Antineoplastic drugs not specifically allowed.

          -  Trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole.

          -  Valproic acid.

          -  Opiates.

          -  Rifampin.

          -  Sulfonylureas.

        Concurrent Treatment:

        Excluded:

          -  Radiation not specifically allowed.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Allergy to probenecid.

          -  Any underlying medical condition sufficient, in investigator's opinion, to prevent
             adequate compliance with study therapy.

          -  History of urinary tract urate stones or gout.

          -  Becoming acutely ill, unstable, or febrile.
      
