TITLE:
A Study of Trimetrexate in the Treatment of Pneumocystis Carinii Pneumonia (PCP) in Patients With AIDS Not Previously Treated for PCP

CONDITION:
Pneumonia, Pneumocystis Carinii

INTERVENTION:
Trimetrexate glucuronate

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the safety and effectiveness of trimetrexate (TMTX) given at increasing doses
      along with the leucovorin calcium (LCV) for treating Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) in
      AIDS patients TMTX is an experimental new drug which is effective for treatment of PCP, but
      has been given to only a few patients. Therefore it is not certain if TMTX is better, the
      same as, or not as effective as conventional drugs against PCP.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      TMTX is an experimental new drug which is effective for treatment of PCP, but has been given
      to only a few patients. Therefore it is not certain if TMTX is better, the same as, or not
      as effective as conventional drugs against PCP.

      Increasing doses of TMTX are used in combination with LCV as initial treatment for PCP in 50
      AIDS patients. Doses are increased for 21 days on a once daily and then a twice daily basis.
      Dose escalations occur in subsequent groups of patients.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patient must:

          -  Have Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) that has not been treated for current
             episode. PCP must be documented by observation of > 1 cluster of organisms in sputum,
             bronchial secretion, or lung tissue.

          -  Have clinical symptoms of respiratory disease or radiologic abnormalities.

        Exclusion Criteria

          -  Patient cannot have significant emotional disorder.

        Concurrent Medication: Excluded:

          -  Drugs likely to be bone marrow toxic.

          -  Investigational drugs.

        Prior Medication: Excluded:

          -  Three patients in each group cannot have had zidovudine (AZT) for at least 2 months
             prior to administration of trimetrexate.
      
