TITLE:
Evaluation of the Changes in HIV-1 Burden in Peripheral Blood and Lymphoid Tissue Following Zidovudine ( AZT ) Treatment in HIV-1-Infected Patients With CD4+ Cells Between 100 and 500 Cells/mm3.

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Zidovudine

SUMMARY:

      PRIMARY: To determine the effect of 8 weeks of zidovudine (AZT) treatment on the HIV-1
      burden in peripheral blood and lymphoid tissue in HIV-1-infected, AZT-naive patients with
      CD4+ T lymphocyte counts between 100 and 500 cells/mm3.

      SECONDARY: To determine the extent to which apoptosis (programmed cell death) occurs in
      these patients.

      In previous trials of AZT treatment in HIV-infected patients, an antiviral effect has been
      clearly demonstrated by quantitative measurement of virus in plasma and peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells. However, the lymphoid tissues appear to be a major reservoir for HIV-1
      and a major site of virus replication in HIV-infected persons. Further data is needed to
      assess the effect of treatment on viral burden and HIV-1 replication in lymphoid tissue.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      In previous trials of AZT treatment in HIV-infected patients, an antiviral effect has been
      clearly demonstrated by quantitative measurement of virus in plasma and peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells. However, the lymphoid tissues appear to be a major reservoir for HIV-1
      and a major site of virus replication in HIV-infected persons. Further data is needed to
      assess the effect of treatment on viral burden and HIV-1 replication in lymphoid tissue.

      Patients receive AZT daily for 8 weeks and are followed in clinic at weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 9,
      and 14 (or possibly via telephone call at week 14). Patients undergo a lymph node biopsy at
      day 0 and week 8.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Prophylaxis against AIDS-related opportunistic infections.

          -  Supportive therapies, such as medications for nausea, vomiting, anemia, and
             analgesia.

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV infection.

          -  CD4 count 100 - 500 cells/mm3.

          -  At least two palpable lymph nodes.

          -  Plasma viremia.

          -  No CURRENT AIDS-defining conditions.

          -  No prior antiretroviral treatment.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded during the first 8 weeks of study:

          -  Other antiretroviral agents.

          -  Steroids.

          -  Interleukins.

          -  Interferons.

          -  Cytotoxic chemotherapy.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Prior antiretroviral therapy.

          -  Prior cytotoxic chemotherapy.

          -  Acute therapy for an infection or another medical illness within 14 days prior to
             study entry.
      
