TITLE:
Comparison of Stavudine Used Alone or in Combination With Didanosine in HIV-Infected Children

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Stavudine

SUMMARY:

      To evaluate the safety and determine the pharmacokinetic disposition of stavudine (d4T)
      alone and in combination with didanosine (ddI), and whether concurrent administration alters
      the disposition of either drug. To compare d4T versus d4T plus ddI with respect to short and
      long term changes from baseline in plasma HIV RNA concentrations. To determine the
      relationship, if any, between drug exposure and viral burden.

      In a pilot study of d4T and ddI given to eight children with advanced HIV for 24 weeks, the
      three children with baseline counts greater than 50 cells/micro liter experienced a 20%
      increase in their CD4+ lymphocyte counts. Based on these results, controlled trials of the
      same regimen for children with less advanced HIV disease should be undertaken.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      In a pilot study of d4T and ddI given to eight children with advanced HIV for 24 weeks, the
      three children with baseline counts greater than 50 cells/micro liter experienced a 20%
      increase in their CD4+ lymphocyte counts. Based on these results, controlled trials of the
      same regimen for children with less advanced HIV disease should be undertaken.

      Eligible subjects receiving d4T will be assigned in an open manner to Arm 1, and subjects
      who have been receiving zidovudine (AZT) will be assigned in a randomized, double blind
      manner to Arms 2 and 3. Each subject will receive study drug for 48 weeks as follows: Arm 1
      - d4T plus ddI, Arm 2 - d4T alone, Arm 3 - d4T plus ddI.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 6 Months to 10 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must:

          -  Be on-study, on-treatment in ACTG 240, or receiving AZT monotherapy by prescription
             for at least 6 months immediately preceding enrollment.

          -  Have laboratory evidence of HIV-1 infection < 18 months - 2 positive viral tests >=
             18 months - 2 positive viral tests or 2 or more positive tests for HIV antibody

          -  Have parent or legal guardian willing to sign a consent.

        Prior Medication: Required:

          -  On-study, on-treatment in ACTG 240 (D4T or AZT) or receiving AZT monotherapy by
             prescription for at least six months immediately preceding this trial.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with any of the following symptoms or conditions are excluded:

          -  Intractable diarrhea or vomiting.

          -  Current clinical or laboratory Grade 3 or worse toxicities.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Concurrent use of antiretroviral agents other than those provided by the study,
             immunomodulators (other than IVIG or corticosteroids), or other investigational drugs
             except for those in ACTG 254 and ACTG 219.

          -  Chemotherapy for active malignancy.

        Patients with any of the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  Reached an ACTG 240 defined endpoint, or are permanently off ACTG 240 study
             treatment.

          -  Prescription AZT recipients may not have received > 6 weeks of d4T or ddI previously.

          -  Subjects who have had chemotherapy for active malignancy.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Prescription AZT recipients may not have received > 6 weeks of d4T or ddI previously.
      
