TITLE:
A Phase III Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerance, and Efficacy of Early Treatment With Zidovudine (AZT) in Asymptomatic Infants With HIV Infection

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Zidovudine

SUMMARY:

      Primary: To determine the efficacy of early treatment with zidovudine (AZT) in HIV-infected
      asymptomatic infants. To determine the safety and tolerance of AZT in this patient
      population.

      Secondary: To compare the virologic and immunologic parameters between the treatment groups.
      To determine the efficacy of AZT as an early treatment to prevent development of CD4+ cell
      depletion in HIV-infected asymptomatic infants.

      AZT is currently indicated for primary treatment in children with HIV-associated signs and
      symptoms and for those with significant immunodeficiency. This study will attempt to
      determine whether early treatment with AZT prevents the development of symptoms in
      HIV-infected infants who are asymptomatic.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      AZT is currently indicated for primary treatment in children with HIV-associated signs and
      symptoms and for those with significant immunodeficiency. This study will attempt to
      determine whether early treatment with AZT prevents the development of symptoms in
      HIV-infected infants who are asymptomatic.

      Patients are randomized to receive oral AZT (at age-adjusted doses) or placebo. Patients are
      evaluated at weeks 2 and 4 and every 4 weeks thereafter; those who reach a study endpoint
      will have their treatment unblinded to allow the clinician to determine which treatment
      regimen the patient should then receive. Patients who meet the criteria for changes to
      open-label AZT will be given the appropriate age-adjusted dose without unblinding the
      original randomization assignment. Patients who complete or discontinue treatment are
      followed every 6 months for up to 2 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 9 Months
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  HIV infection.

          -  CD4 count >= 2000 cells/mm3 AND >= 30 percent of total lymphocytes.

          -  No signs or symptoms of HIV infection (other than lymphadenopathy, mild hepatomegaly,
             hypergammaglobulinemia, or splenomegaly, which is permitted).

          -  Consent of parent or guardian.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms and conditions are excluded:

          -  Serious acute infection requiring parenteral therapy at time of entry.

          -  One or more serious, proven bacterial infections including any of the following:

          -  septicemia; pneumonia; meningitis; bone or joint infection; or abscess of an internal
             organ or body cavity (excluding otitis media or superficial skin or mucosal
             abscesses) that are caused by Haemophilus, Streptococcus (including pneumococcus), or
             other pyogenic bacteria.

          -  Clinical neurologic/neuropsychologic deficits, or a head circumference less than the
             fifth percentile.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Any agent with known antiretroviral activity.

          -  Acetaminophen, ibuprofen, or aspirin for more than 72 hours continuously.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  More than 7 weeks of prior antiretroviral or immunomodulator therapy post-natally.

        Recommended:

          -  PCP prophylaxis.

          -  Immunizations according to current recommendations.
      
