TITLE:
Comparison of Two Drugs, Cidofovir and Ganciclovir, in Treating Patients With AIDS Who Have CMV Retinitis

CONDITION:
Cytomegalovirus Retinitis

INTERVENTION:
Cidofovir

SUMMARY:

      To compare cidofovir with a commonly used treatment regimen, ganciclovir given by mouth
      (oral) and through an eye device (intraocular) , in order to determine the safety and
      effectiveness of cidofovir in preventing vision loss in patients who have AIDS complicated
      by CMV (cytomegalovirus) retinitis.

      Cidofovir needs to be compared to ganciclovir to determine the best way to treat CMV
      retinitis.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      While cidofovir is effective in suppressing retinitis and prolonging time to progression, no
      studies have compared cidofovir to other therapies and its place in the treatment of CMV
      retinitis remains unexplored. By combining the ganciclovir intraocular device (slows
      retinitis progression) with oral ganciclovir (has the potential to treat both the ocular
      disease and to suppress dissemination to the contralateral eye and the viscera), without the
      use of a central venous catheter, this combination has become increasingly common. For these
      reasons, a comparative trial of cidofovir to other therapies is appropriate.

      After being stratified by the clinic and by stage of disease, patients are randomized to 1
      of 2 treatment arms: intravenous (IV) cidofovir (Group I) or intraocular ganciclovir device
      plus oral ganciclovir (Group II). Group I: Cidofovir is administered IV once weekly for 2
      consecutive weeks, then every 2 weeks thereafter. If progression occurs, oral ganciclovir is
      added to treatment or if this regimen is not tolerated, patients are treated according to
      the best medical judgment. Concurrent oral probenecid and intravenous hydration are
      administered with each cidofovir infusion. Group II: An intraocular ganciclovir device is
      surgically implanted at baseline and then every 6 to 8 months and ganciclovir is
      administered orally. If more than 1 progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs, patients
      are treated according to the best medical judgment.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        You may be eligible for this study if you:

          -  Are 13 years of age or older (parent or guardian consent required if under 18).

          -  Agree to practice sexual abstinence or use effective birth control during and for 90
             days after the study.

          -  Have AIDS.

          -  Have CMV retinitis.

        Exclusion Criteria

        You will not be eligible for this study if you:

          -  Have a history of heart or kidney disease.

          -  Have medical problems which would prevent you from completing the study.

          -  Are pregnant.
      
