TITLE:
A Randomized, Prospective, Double-Blind Study Comparing Fluconazole With Placebo for Primary and Secondary Prophylaxis of Mucosal Candidiasis in HIV-Infected Women

CONDITION:
Candidiasis

INTERVENTION:
Fluconazole

SUMMARY:

      To compare the efficacy of fluconazole versus placebo for the prevention of Candida
      esophagitis and vaginal/oropharyngeal candidiasis, including a comparison of the development
      of clinical resistance.

      Fluconazole has been shown to be effective in preventing or suppressing candidiasis in
      HIV-negative women. An increasing likelihood of oral and esophageal candidiasis in
      conjunction with progressive immunosuppression raises the question of the potential role of
      prophylactic antifungal therapy in high-risk persons.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Fluconazole has been shown to be effective in preventing or suppressing candidiasis in
      HIV-negative women. An increasing likelihood of oral and esophageal candidiasis in
      conjunction with progressive immunosuppression raises the question of the potential role of
      prophylactic antifungal therapy in high-risk persons.

      Four hundred HIV-infected women are randomized to receive fluconazole or placebo weekly for
      up to 2 years. Patients undergo follow-up every 3 months or more often if signs and symptoms
      of mucosal candidiasis occur.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients must have:

          -  Evidence of HIV infection.

          -  CD4+ count <= 300 cells/mm3 or <= 20 percent of total lymphocyte count.

          -  Reasonably good health with a life expectancy of at least 6 months.

          -  Pelvic exam including Pap smear or colposcopy performed within the past 90 days.

        Prior Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Topical or systemic treatment or prophylaxis with an antifungal agent.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with the following symptoms and conditions are excluded:

          -  Current diagnosis of Candida esophagitis.

          -  Known intolerance to azoles.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded:

          -  Systemic treatment or prophylaxis with an antifungal agent.

        Patients with the following prior conditions are excluded:

          -  Past history of Candida esophagitis.
      
