TITLE:
A Study to Evaluate the Effect of Nandrolone Decanoate in Women With HIV-Associated Weight Loss

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
Nandrolone decanoate

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to see if giving nandrolone decanoate (a hormonal drug) will
      cause weight gain in HIV-positive women who have HIV-associated weight loss (wasting).

      Wasting has become an AIDS-defining condition. In the past, most studies that examined
      wasting treatments were limited to men. However, it appears that wasting in HIV-positive men
      is linked to levels of testosterone (a hormone which affects men's bodies more than
      women's). This study has been designed for women only, in order to best treat wasting in
      HIV-positive women.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Body wasting is an increasingly frequent AIDS-defining condition and it is becoming evident
      that women are not exempt from this complication of HIV. Although multicenter trials of
      megestrol acetate, dronabinol and growth hormone have not specifically excluded women, women
      have generally been underrepresented in these trials. This study hopes to generate data that
      will be substantial enough to perform an analysis that might determine whether there are
      gender-based differences in anabolic potential.

      Patients will be randomized to receive either nandrolone decanoate or placebo every 2 weeks
      for 12 weeks of the study. All patients who complete the first 12 weeks of the study will be
      eligible to receive open-label nandrolone for the subsequent 12 weeks.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        You may be eligible for this study if you:

          -  Are an HIV-positive woman over 13 years old (need consent if under 18).

          -  Have lost weight over the past 12 months.

          -  Are able to eat almost enough to maintain your current weight.

          -  Agree to practice abstinence or use effective methods of birth control.

          -  Are on a stable anti-HIV drug regimen or have not been on any anti-HIV drug regimen
             for the past 30 days.

        Exclusion Criteria

        You will not be eligible for this study if you:

          -  Are allergic to nandrolone.

          -  Have a history of cervical cancer, diabetes, cardiomyopathy or congestive heart
             failure, or are taking certain medications.

          -  Have an active opportunistic (HIV-associated) infection or another major illness
             within 30 days of study entry.

          -  Have an abnormal PAP smear.

          -  Have difficulty eating (are on tube-feeding, for example).

          -  Have severe nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea.

          -  Have Kaposi's sarcoma (unless stable) or are receiving chemotherapy or radiation for
             any type of cancer.

          -  Are pregnant or breast-feeding.
      
