TITLE:
A Randomized, Controlled Study of Intravenous Ganciclovir Therapy for Peripheral Cytomegalovirus Retinitis in Patients With AIDS

CONDITION:
Cytomegalovirus Retinitis

INTERVENTION:
Ganciclovir

SUMMARY:

      To provide information about the usefulness and safety of giving injections of ganciclovir
      (DHPG) for treating peripheral cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis.

      CMV retinitis is an important sight-threatening opportunistic infection which affects 1 to 2
      out of every 10 patients with AIDS. Results from an earlier study suggest that about 80
      percent of patients with CMV retinitis will be helped by receiving intravenous doses of
      DHPG.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      CMV retinitis is an important sight-threatening opportunistic infection which affects 1 to 2
      out of every 10 patients with AIDS. Results from an earlier study suggest that about 80
      percent of patients with CMV retinitis will be helped by receiving intravenous doses of
      DHPG.

      Patients are randomly placed in one of two treatment groups. In one group, patients receive
      DHPG twice a day, intravenously, for 14 days, followed by a daily dose for 14 weeks.
      Patients in the other group (the delayed-treatment group) do not receive immediate treatment
      with DHPG. Patients in both groups have regular ophthalmologic (eye) evaluations with
      retinal photographs to see if the retinitis is getting worse. Patients in the delayed
      treatment group receive DHPG if this occurs.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 13 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Concurrent Medication:

        Allowed:

          -  Zidovudine (AZT) for patients in delayed treatment group and not receiving
             ganciclovir.

          -  Didanosine (ddI) may be continued or initiated in any patient during the study.

          -  Topical acyclovir.

          -  Topical ophthalmics.

          -  Aerosolized pentamidine.

        Patients must have:

          -  AIDS as defined by the CDC criteria or have had confirmation of HIV infection by
             ELISA, p24 antigen assay, or culture of HIV.

          -  Retinal lesions greater than 1500 microns from edge of optic disc outside major
             temporal vascular arcades, and greater than 3000 microns from fovea.

          -  Understanding of study provisions, and willingness to sign informed consent form
             approved by the appropriate Institutional Review Board and Syntex.

          -  Life expectancy of at least 4 months.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Co-existing Condition:

        Patients with ocular conditions requiring immediate surgical correction are excluded.

        Concurrent Medication:

        Excluded during first 4 weeks of ganciclovir treatment:

        Zidovudine (AZT).

        Excluded:

        Other investigational drugs and antimetabolites, alkylating agents, nucleoside analogs
        (topical ophthalmics are permitted), acyclovir, interferon, foscarnet (non-nucleoside
        pyrophosphate analog), cytomegalovirus (CMV) hyperimmune globulin, and cytokines.

        Patients with the following are excluded:

          -  Immediately sight-threatening retinitis (= or < 1500 microns from edge of optic disc,
             or inside major temporal vascular arcades, or = or < 3000 microns from the fovea).

          -  Ocular media opacities (corneal, lenticular, or vitreal) preventing ophthalmologic
             and photographic retinal assessment.

          -  Demonstrated hypersensitivity to acyclovir.

        Prior Medication:

        Excluded:

        - Previous treatment with anti-cytomegalovirus therapy.
      
