TITLE:
EF5 Compared With Other Methods of Detecting Oxygen Levels in Tumor Cells of Patients With Head and Neck Cancer

CONDITION:
Head and Neck Cancer

INTERVENTION:
EF5

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Diagnostic procedures using the drug EF5 to detect the presence of oxygen in
      tumor cells may help to plan effective treatment for solid tumors.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to compare diagnostic procedures using EF5 to that of other methods
      of detecting oxygen levels in tumor cells of patients who have head and neck cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the distribution, degree, and intrapatient and interpatient heterogeneity of
           hypoxia, as measured by EF5 binding in tumor tissue, in patients with head and neck
           cancer.

        -  Determine the distribution and intrapatient and interpatient heterogeneity of CA9
           expression, as measured immunohistochemically, in these patients.

        -  Determine the distribution, concentration, and intrapatient and interpatient
           heterogeneity of glucose and lactate, as measured by bioluminescence imaging, in these
           patients.

        -  Determine whether there is spatial coordination between concentrations of lactate and
           glucose and the location of tissue hypoxia in these patients.

        -  Determine whether there is spatial coordination between the location of CA9 with
           hypoxia and/or lactate concentrations in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive EF5 IV over 1-2.5 hours on day 1. Within 24-55 hours after EF5
      infusion, patients undergo surgery.

      Tumor tissue samples are examined for EF5 binding by immunohistochemistry, bioluminescence
      imaging, and flow cytometry.

      Patients are followed at 1 month and then for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 20 patients will be accrued for this study within 1 year.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck

          -  Clinically detectable disease by physical examination or radiographic studies

          -  Scheduled to undergo surgical resection of tumor or radiotherapeutic treatment

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  Karnofsky 70-100%

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  WBC greater than 3,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count greater than 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 mg/dL

        Renal

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.8 mg/dL

        Other

          -  No allergy to IV contrast dye

          -  No prior grade III or IV peripheral neuropathy

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception during and for 1 week after study
             participation

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  Concurrent radiotherapy allowed

        Surgery

          -  See Disease Characteristics
      
