TITLE:
Standard Follow-up Compared With Extended Follow-up in Treating Patients Who Have Undergone Stem Cell Transplantation for Cancer

CONDITION:
Cancer

INTERVENTION:
fatigue assessment and management

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Telephone counseling by trained counselors may enhance the well-being and quality
      of life of patients who have undergone stem cell transplantation for cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized clinical trial to compare the effectiveness of standard follow-up care
      with extended follow-up care in treating patients who have undergone stem cell
      transplantation for cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the recovery course of patients with malignancies who undergo standard vs
           extended recovery preparation after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

        -  Compare the efficacy of these recovery preparations in managing rehabilitation needs,
           including reduced stamina and cognitive limitations, of these patients.

        -  Compare the ability of these recovery preparations to assist patients and caregivers in
           adjusting to unavoidable fluctuations in caregiver roles and emotions.

        -  Compare the ability of these recovery preparations to assist female patients in
           managing menopausal symptoms and sexual function changes.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      gender, type of transplantation (allogeneic vs autologous), ethnicity (Caucasian vs
      non-Caucasian), total body irradiation (yes vs no), and participating center. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 supportive care arms.

      Patients complete 1 baseline assessment prior to transplant and a second assessment after
      the transplant, approximately 1 week before returning home.

        -  Arm I (Standard Recovery Preparation): Patients and caregivers receive standard
           preparation prior to discharge, a booklet of stem cell transplant-related resources and
           contact information, and the National Cancer Institute-produced publication entitled
           "Facing Forward".

        -  Arm II (Recovery Preparation Intervention): Patients and caregivers receive standard
           preparation and resource materials as in arm I. Women also receive 10 scheduled
           telephone appointment sessions, lasting 1 hour each, over the first year after
           returning home. Men receive 9 scheduled telephone appointment sessions in the same
           manner as the women. The first 5-6 sessions have a specific topic with a corresponding
           video. The last 4 calls are booster calls to answer questions, identify new problems,
           and provide support. Patients with acute problems or problems that cannot be handled
           through regular sessions are referred to the interdisciplinary recovery triage team.
           Problems addressed by this team include depression, agitation, cognitive change,
           fatigue, family disruptions, sexuality, and gynecologic or menopausal difficulties.

      Patients are followed at 1 and 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 412 patients and their caregivers (385 patients randomized)
      will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of a malignancy

          -  Planned bone marrow, stem cell, or umbilical cord transplantation after a
             myeloablative conditioning regimen

               -  Must have completed radiotherapy and conditioning chemotherapy

               -  Must be first stem cell transplantation

               -  Must recover sufficiently, physically and cognitively, to be ambulatory and able
                  to live at home

          -  Must be planning to live with primary caregiver for at least 3 months upon return
             home

          -  No refractory breast cancer requiring treatment on a phase I protocol

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic

          -  Not specified

        Renal

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  Must be able to read, write, and communicate well by phone in English

          -  Must not be deaf or blind

          -  Must live in the United States

          -  Must not be too ill or in too much pain

          -  No major psychiatric disorders not in remission

          -  No prisoners

          -  No prior major alcohol or drug abuse

          -  No major cognitive problems

          -  No other concurrent confounding major illness

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Chemotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Surgery

          -  Not specified
      
