TITLE:
Two Studies to Determine if Verteporfin PDT is Effective & Safe in Treating Multiple Basal Cell Carcinoma of the Skin.

CONDITION:
Basal Cell Carcinoma

INTERVENTION:
verteporfin PDT

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of the two studies is to determine whether an experimental therapy using a
      photoactive drug, verteporfin, in combination with direct light exposure of basal cell
      carcinoma of the skin can safely eliminate these skin tumors.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) of the skin is the most common type of cancer that can be treated
      with various therapies including surgical removal. A number of factors can lead to the
      development of multiple BCC of the skin, including genetic disorders (e.g., nevoid basal
      cell carcinoma syndrome). Treatment of multiple BCC becomes much more challenging. In these
      trials, the experimental therapy: verteporfin PDT is compared to placebo PDT. PDT or
      photodynamic therapy in these studies is the combination of the photoactive drug verteporfin
      (given intravenously) and red light exposure of skin tumors.

      The primary objective is to assess whether verteporfin PDT can completely eliminate multiple
      BCCs. Eligible subjects will have at least 3 BCCs. Study subjects won't know which treatment
      they have been been assigned to - this is done randomly (like flipping a coin). After study
      treatment, the BCCs in each subject will be closely observed and toward the end of the study
      all will be surgically removed and examined to verify response to study treatment. Safety
      will be assessed by testing blood samples before and after study treatment, and analyzing
      adverse events and skin reactions to the study treatment.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 90 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Currently has at least 3 eligible BCC skin tumors that have never been treated

          -  Is willing to have these tumor sites surgically removed

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Has xeroderma pigmentosum

          -  Has BCC tumors that are the result of prior radiotherapy or immunosuppression due to
             an organ transplant

          -  Is immunosuppressed

          -  Has abnormal liver function

          -  Is receiving systemic chemotherapy or has received chemotherapy within the last two
             years
      
