TITLE:
Gemcitabine Combined With Mistletoe in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
mistletoe extract

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine, use different ways to stop tumor
      cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Mistletoe may slow the growth of tumor
      cells and may be an effective treatment for solid tumors.

      PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combining gemcitabine with mistletoe in
      treating patients who have advanced solid tumors.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of gemcitabine and mistletoe in patients with
           advanced solid tumors.

        -  Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetic effects of gemcitabine with and without mistletoe in
           these patients.

        -  Determine tumor response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the time to neutrophil count recovery in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and mistletoe subcutaneously
      daily starting on day 8 of course 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 3 courses
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients receive escalating doses of gemcitabine and mistletoe in 2 stages.

        -  Stage I: Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of mistletoe in combination
           with a constant dose of gemcitabine until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of mistletoe
           is determined.

        -  Stage II: Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of gemcitabine in
           combination with the MTD of mistletoe as determined in stage I until the MTD of
           gemcitabine is determined.

      In both stages, the MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 patients experience
      dose-limiting toxicity.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 45-51 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed metastatic, recurrent, or unresectable locally advanced
             solid tumor, including one of the following:

               -  Breast or colorectal cancer that has failed first-line chemotherapy

               -  Non-small cell lung cancer

               -  Pancreatic Cancer

          -  No CNS metastases

          -  Hormone receptor status:

               -  Not specified

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Sex

          -  Male or female

        Menopausal status

          -  Not specified

        Performance status

          -  ECOG 0-1

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 2.0 mg/dL

          -  No clinically significant hepatic dysfunction

        Renal

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2.5 mg/dL

          -  No clinically significant renal dysfunction

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  HIV negative

          -  No clinically significant unrelated illness (e.g., serious infection or organ
             dysfunction) that would preclude study tolerance

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  No prior mistletoe

        Chemotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No prior gemcitabine

          -  More than 30 days since prior chemotherapy and recovered

        Endocrine therapy

          -  More than 30 days since prior glucocorticosteroid therapy

        Radiotherapy

          -  Recovered from prior radiotherapy

        Surgery

          -  Recovered from prior surgery

        Other

          -  At least 30 days since prior investigational agents

          -  No other concurrent investigational agents
      
