TITLE:
Angiomax in Patients With HIT/HITTS Type II Undergoing Off-Pump Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting (CABG) (CHOOSE)

CONDITION:
Thrombocytopenia

INTERVENTION:
Angiomax (bivalirudin) anticoagulant

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to examine the safety and efficacy of Angiomax as an
      anticoagulation in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT)/heparin-induced
      thrombocytopenia with thrombosis syndrome (HITTS) undergoing off-pump coronary artery bypass
      (OPCAB) surgery.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion:

          -  Be at least 18 years of age.

          -  Be accepted for OPCAB graft surgery (repeat CABG eligible)

          -  New diagnosis or history of objectively documented HIT/HITTS Type II, defined as:

               1. Positive heparin-induced platelet aggregation (HIPA) or other functional assay
                  for HIT or immunoassay for HIT antibodies (ELISA), AND/OR

               2. HIT: Thrombocytopenia associated with heparin therapy, where the platelet count
                  has decreased by 50%, OR

               3. HITTS: Thrombocytopenia (as defined in B above) PLUS any arterial or venous
                  thrombosis (Deep-vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, mesenteric venouse or
                  arterial thrombosis, acute myocardial infarction, left ventricular thrombus,
                  ischemic stroke, or occlusion of limb arteries) diagnosed by physical exam/lab
                  evidence and/or appropriate imaging studies (duplex ultrasound, venography,
                  ventilation-perfusion scan, venouse or arterial angiography, MRI/MRA,
                  catheterization.)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Confirmed pregnancy, by urine or serum pregnancy test (if woman of child-bearing
             potential).

          -  Cerebrovascular accident within 6 months, or any cerebrovascular accident with a
             residual neurological deficit.

          -  Intracranial neoplasm, arteriovenous malformation, or aneurysm.

          -  Dependency on renal dialysis or creatinine clearance <30mL/min.

          -  Ongoing treatment with warfarin (or other oral anticoagulant) at the time of
             enrollment.

        Patients previously treated with warfarin may be enrolled if warfarin therapy can be
        safely discontinued and baseline INR is < 1.3 times control in the absence of heparin
        therapy.

          -  Known allergy to Angiomax or hirudin derived drugs, or known sensitivity to any
             component of the product.

          -  Patients receiving clopidogrel (Plavix) within the previous 5 days may be enrolled
             if in the opinion of the Investigator the benefits of surgery outweigh the risk
             associated with recent clopidogrel administration.

          -  Patients receiving a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor within the previous 48 hours if
             abciximab (ReoPro) or 12 hours if eptifibatide (Integrilin) or tirofiban
             (Aggrastat), may be enrolled if in the opinion of the investigator the benefits of
             surgery outweigh the risk associated with not waiting the 48 or 12 hour time period
             prior to enrollment.

          -  Patients receiving lepirudin (Refludan) or argatroban within the previous 24 hours
             prior to enrollment. Patients currently receiving lepirudin or argatroban can be
             enrolled if they are switched to Angiomax at least 24 hours prior to the contemplated
             OPCAB.

          -  Patients receiving low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) or thrombolytics within the
             previous 12 hours may be enrolled if in the opinion of the Investigator the benefits
             of surgery outweigh the risk associated with not waiting the 12 hour time period.

          -  Participation in other clinical research studies involving the evaluation of other
             investigational drugs or devices within 30 days of randomization.

          -  Refusal to undergo blood transfusion should it become necessary.

          -  Any other disease or condition, which, in the judgment of the investigator would
             place a patient at undue risk by being enrolled in the trial or inability to comply
             with study requirements.
      
