TITLE:
Treatment of Compulsive Hoarding

CONDITION:
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder

INTERVENTION:
Cognitive Behavioral Treatment

SUMMARY:

      This study will develop and test a cognitive behavioral treatment for compulsive
      accumulation of goods.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Compulsive hoarding is a form of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) that is characterized
      by excessive acquisition of possessions, difficulty discarding possessions, and excessive
      clutter. This condition is resistant to both pharmacological and psychotherapeutic
      interventions that are effective in treating other symptoms of OCD. This study will
      determine the effectiveness of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) in treating compulsive
      hoarding symptoms.

      This study consists of three phases. In Phase 1, data from previously conducted pilot
      studies will be revised and expanded. In Phase 2, the revised data will be used to develop
      and implement a treatment manual for compulsive hoarding. During this phase, treatment will
      be flexibly applied to allow for variations in treatment duration and choice of techniques.
      During Phase 3, participants will be randomly assigned to either CBT or a wait-list control,
      followed by active treatment for a fixed duration. Therapist adherence and competence will
      be assessed through audiotaped therapy sessions.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion criteria:

          -  Display at least moderately severe hoarding symptoms

          -  Must live within 45 minutes of Boston, MA or Hartford, CT

        Exclusion criteria:

          -  Ten or more sessions of cognitive behavior therapy for hoarding

          -  Concurrent psychotherapy or medications

          -  Suicidal, psychotic, or other psychiatric symptoms requiring hospitalization

          -  Compulsive buying symptoms that are part of a manic phase of bipolar disorder

          -  Mental retardation, dementia, brain damage, or other cognitive dysfunction that would
             interfere with the study
      
