TITLE:
Optimal Treatment Strategies for Sexually Abused Children

CONDITION:
Child Abuse, Sexual

INTERVENTION:
Trauma focused cognitive behavioral therapy (TF-CBT)

SUMMARY:

      This study will determine the necessity of including abuse-focused interventions in the
      treatment of sexually abused children.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Child sexual abuse is a serious public health problem that places children at high risk for
      developing anxiety, mood, conduct, sexual, and substance abuse disorders. It also increases
      their likelihood of experiencing further victimization. It is imperative that abused
      children are provided with effective interventions to minimize their risk of developing
      problems that can be disruptive to their psychosocial development. Evidence suggests that
      cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) can effectively ameliorate many abuse-related symptoms
      exhibited by sexually abused children and their parents. However, it is unknown whether CBT
      treatment should include gradual exposure (GE), an intervention that involves the gradual
      confrontation of abuse-related thoughts and memories with therapist feedback to assist the
      child in effectively processing the abusive experience. Because this component of CBT may be
      more difficult for children and their parents, it is important to determine if and when GE
      is essential for optimal recovery in abused children.

      Children and their parents will be randomly assigned to receive one of four treatments:
      brief abuse-focused treatment, brief coping skills treatment, extended abuse-focused
      treatment, and extended coping skills treatment. Assessments will be conducted before,
      during, and after treatment and at 6- and 12-month follow-up visits. Standardized
      evaluations will be conducted to assess parents' distress and support levels; parent reports
      of children's behavior patterns, sexualized behaviors, and post-traumatic stress disorder
      (PTSD) symptoms; and children's self-reports of PTSD, depression and anxiety symptoms, body
      safety skills, and victimization experiences.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 4 Years to 11 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Sexual abuse that has occurred within 24 months of the study. The abuse must have
             been substantiated by child protective services, charges must have been pressed by
             the prosecutor's office, or there must have been independent confirmation of abuse by
             a professional with recognized expertise in conducting investigative evaluations.

          -  Kiddie-Sads-Present and Lifetime Version (K-SADS-PL) criteria for partial or full
             post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)

          -  Parental consent

          -  Caretaker who has not abused the child

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Mental Retardation (IQ less than 70) or placement in special education classes

          -  DSM-IV criteria for Pervasive Developmental Disorders

          -  Psychotic disorder

          -  Serious medical illness that could interfere with the study

          -  In temporary, emergency foster care. If a child is returned home or placed in
             short-term foster care that is anticipated to last a minimum of 4 months, then the
             child is eligible for participation.

          -  Parent who meets DSM-IV criteria for a psychotic disorder

          -  Parents with serious mental health problems that result in substantial functional
             impairment

          -  Unsupervised contact with abuse perpetrator

          -  Receiving concurrent psychiatric treatment for the abuse. If participants previously
             received sexual abuse treatment that did not resolve symptomology, they are eligible
             to participate. In addition, children who have contact with a psychiatrist for
             medication monitoring purposes may be included if their medication and dosage have
             remained stable for at least 6 weeks prior to study start
      
