TITLE:
Prostate Cancer Intervention Versus Observation Trial (PIVOT)

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
Radical prostatectomy

SUMMARY:

      Radical prostatectomy provides potentially curative removal of the cancer. However, it
      subjects patients to the morbidity and mortality of the surgery and may be neither necessary
      nor effective. Expectant management does not offer potential cure. However, it provides
      palliative therapy for symptomatic or metastatic disease progression, avoids potentially
      excessive and morbid interventions in asymptomatic patients, and emphasizes management
      approaches for focus on relieving symptoms while minimizing therapeutic complications.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine which of two strategies is superior for
      the management of clinically localized CAP: 1) radical prostatectomy with early aggressive
      intervention for disease persistence or recurrence, 2) expectant management with reservation
      of therapy for palliative treatment of symptomatic or metastatic disease progression.
      Outcomes include total mortality, CAP mortality, disease free and progression free survival,
      morbidity, quality of life, and cost effectiveness.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Primary Hypothesis: To determine whether radical prostatectomy or expectant management is
      more effective in reducing mortality and extending life.

      Secondary Hypothesis: To determine which treatment strategy is superior in terms of prostate
      specific cancer mortality, quality of life, occurrence or recurrence of symptoms and need
      for cancer treatment.

      Intervention: 1) Radical prostatectomy, plus intervention for evidence of disease
      persistence or recurrence, 2) Expectant management with palliative therapy reserved for
      symptomatic or metastatic disease progression.

      Primary Outcomes: All cause mortality.

      Study Abstract: Cancer of the prostate (CAP) is the most common nondermatologic and the
      second most frequent cause of cancer deaths in men. No cure is currently possible for
      disseminated disease. Cancer confined to the prostate is believed to be curable, with the
      most frequently recommended therapy being surgical extirpation of the tumor with radical
      prostatectomy. However, despite increasing cancer detection and aggressive surgical
      treatment, population-based mortality rates from prostate cancer have not decreased, neither
      nationally nor in states with high rates of radical prostatectomy. Existing evidence does
      not demonstrate the superiority of this procedure compared to expectant management in the
      treatment of localized prostate cancer. Data from case series suggest that either treatment
      approach provides equivalent all-cause as well as prostate cancer specific mortality. The
      only randomized trial was limited by a small sample size but the results favored expectant
      management.

      Radical prostatectomy provides potentially curative removal of the cancer. However, it
      subjects patients to the morbidity and mortality of the surgery and may be neither necessary
      nor effective. Expectant management does not offer potential cure. However, it provides
      palliative therapy for symptomatic or metastatic disease progression, avoids potentially
      excessive and morbid interventions in asymptomatic patients, and emphasizes management
      approaches for focus on relieving symptoms while minimizing therapeutic complications.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine which of two strategies is superior for
      the management of clinically localized CAP: 1) radical prostatectomy with early aggressive
      intervention for disease persistence or recurrence, 2) expectant management with reservation
      of therapy for palliative treatment of symptomatic or metastatic disease progression.
      Outcomes include total mortality, CAP mortality, disease free and progression free survival,
      morbidity, quality of life, and cost effectiveness.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: N/A to 75 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with clinically localized CAP

          -  Diagnosis of Prostate Cancer within previous 6 months

          -  Age 75 years or younger

        Exclusion Criteria:

        PSA > 50 ng/ml Bone scan consistent with metastatic disease Other evidence that cancer of
        the prostate is not clinically localized Diagnosis of prostate cancer greater than 12
        months ago Life expectancy less than 10 years Serum creatinine greater than 3 mg/dl
        Myocardial infarction within last 6 months Unstable angina New York Heart Association
        Class III or IV congestive heart failure Severe pulmonary disease Lifer failure Severe
        dementia Debilitating illness Malignancies, except for nonmelanomatous skin cancer, in the
        last 5 years
      
