TITLE:
Safety and Effectiveness of the Vaccine ALVAC-HIV vCP205 in HIV-Negative Adult Volunteers in Uganda

CONDITION:
HIV Infections

INTERVENTION:
ALVAC-HIV MN120TMG (vCP205)

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to see if it is safe to give ALVAC-HIV vCP205, a possible HIV
      vaccine, and to study the immune responses in adult HIV-1 uninfected volunteers.

      Uganda has been severely affected by HIV infection and AIDS and has been selected to
      participate in HIV-vaccine development. The HIV viruses commonly isolated from Uganda are 2
      kinds that are not used in making current vaccines. Current vaccines generate several kinds
      of immune responses. Researchers would like to see if a response to the kind of virus in a
      current vaccine will also protect people from the viruses commonly found in Uganda.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The African country of Uganda is severely affected by HIV infection and AIDS and has been
      selected by the World Health Organization to participate in HIV-vaccine development. The
      predominant HIV-1 strains isolated from Ugandans are members of clade A and clade D. The
      only vaccines available for human testing are based on envelope proteins from clade B and
      clade E viruses. ALVAC-HIV vCP205 is a second generation vaccine that can induce a humoral
      and cellular response against several antigens. The current study will attempt to extend
      these findings to determine if the vCP205 vaccine, when administered to Ugandans, can induce
      cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) responses that are reactive against the HIV strains prevalent
      in Uganda.

      Volunteers are randomized into 1 of 3 groups and receive either the candidate HIV-1 vaccine
      ALVAC-HIV vCP205, the experimental canarypox rabies vaccine ALVAC-RG, or placebo-ALVAC.
      Neither the volunteer nor his/her health care professional knows which preparation is being
      given. Volunteers receive 4 injections over a period of 6 months and are followed for up to
      24 months. Clinical observations and monitoring of hematological, chemical, and immunologic
      parameters are done. Safety is evaluated by monitoring for local and systemic adverse
      reactions during the course of the trial. Comparative immunogenicity analyses are based on
      CTL responses to HIV and measures of binding and HIV-specific antibody responses. At each
      visit, volunteers are counseled on how to avoid HIV exposure and pregnancy.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Volunteers may be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are 18 to 40 years of age.

          -  Have a negative pregnancy test at time of entry and agree to use birth control for 1
             month prior to the first injection and during active follow-up.

          -  Have a normal history and physical examination.

          -  Are negative for Hepatitis B.

          -  Are HIV-negative.

          -  Have blood cells that can be infected with Epstein-Barr virus.

          -  Are available for follow-up for the study (24 months).

        Exclusion Criteria

        Volunteers will not be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Have had a sexually transmitted disease or more than 1 sex partner during the
             previous 12 months.

          -  Are pregnant or breast-feeding.

          -  Have had immune diseases, chronic illness, or malignancy. Persons who had cancer that
             was surgically removed and are thought to be cured are eligible.

          -  Have used medications that affect the immune system.

          -  Have a medical or mental condition or job that may interfere with the study.

          -  Have received certain live vaccines within 60 days of study. Other vaccines such as
             flu or pneumococcal are not excluded but should be received at least 2 weeks away
             from HIV immunizations.

          -  Have used experimental agents within 30 days prior to study.

          -  Have received any blood products within the last 6 months.

          -  Have syphilis.

          -  Have an HIV-positive partner.

          -  Have tuberculosis.

          -  Have had or currently have severe allergic reactions to vaccines, eggs or neomycin,
             or any other substance. that required hospitalization or other medical care.

          -  Have been immunized or treated for rabies within 6 months of receiving injections.

          -  Are poultry workers.

          -  Have malaria that has not been treated or has not responded to treatment.

          -  Have schistosomiasis.
      
