TITLE:
FACTS II: A Study to Test the Safety and Effectiveness of a New Medication on the Treatment of Active Ulcerative Colitis

CONDITION:
Ulcerative Colitis

INTERVENTION:
OPC-6535 Tablets (drug)

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the drug OPC-6535
      compared to a placebo in patients with active Ulcerative Colitis.

      Depending on their response, participants will be offered the investigational medication for
      up to one year after the study's completion at select sites.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male or female subjects, 18-80 years of age, inclusive, who provide written informed
             consent prior to any study-related procedures and who are, in the opinion of the
             Investigator, likely to comply with all the requirements of the study

          -  Subjects with established diagnosis of active ulcerative colitis, who have relapsed
             within 12 weeks before screening. All subjects must have had the diagnosis of
             ulcerative colitis established by colonoscopy* prior to entering the study. (Newly
             diagnosed patients are also eligible.) * Colonoscopy may be substituted for flexible
             sigmoidoscopy during Screening if this inclusion criterion is not met.

          -  Colonic involvement with ulcerative colitis beyond 15 cm of the anal verge.

          -  Subjects with active disease, as defined by a DAI score between 7 and 11, inclusive,
             at the Screening/Baseline Visit.

          -  A score of 2 for rectal bleeding and a score  0 on flexible sigmoidoscopy at the
             Screening/Baseline Visit, based on DAI criteria.

          -  Subjects who have been on a stable dose of 5-ASA for at least 14 days prior to the
             Screening/Baseline Visit OR subjects who have not been receiving any 5-ASA for at
             least 14 days.

          -  Subjects who are surgically sterilized or who are prepared to and agree to practice a
             double-barrier form of birth control from the Screening/Baseline Visit through 30
             (females) and 90 (males) days, respectively, from the last dose of study medication.
             Females who are more than 12 months post-menopausal are also eligible to participate
             in the study.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Subjects who have severe disease, defined as DAI of 12 at the Screening/Baseline
             Visit, and/or subjects whom the Investigator deems likely to require
             immunosuppressant therapy including corticosteroids and/or hospitalization during the
             period of study.

          -  Subjects who have any other clinically significant disease(s) which, in the opinion
             of the Investigator, could compromise the subject's involvement in the study and/or
             interfere with the absorption of the study drug or the overall interpretation of the
             data.

          -  Subjects who have had major gastrointestinal surgery including, but not limited to, a
             colostomy, an ileostomy or previous colonic surgery other than appendectomy.

          -  Subjects who have used oral corticosteroids (including oral budesonide) within 30
             days, or topical intrarectal agents (corticosteroids or 5-ASA enemas, suppositories,
             foams) within 7 days of Screening/Baseline. (Topical dermatological corticosteroids
             are not excluded).

          -  Subjects who have used immunosuppressants including, but not limited to:
             azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, methotrexate, within 28 days or IL-10, IL-11, FK-506
             [tacrolimus], mycophenolate, cyclosporine, anti-TNF- or monoclonal antibody
             medications within 60 days of Screening/Baseline.

          -  Subjects who have a history of active malignancies within 5 years (surgically-treated
             basal cell, squamous cell, non-melanoma or in situ cervical carcinomas permissible),
             an intra-abdominal abscess, a toxic megacolon, or a clinical instability resulting
             from any other cause.

          -  Subjects with a known or suspected history of sclerosing cholangitis.

          -  Subjects with a known or suspected history of clinically relevant cardiac disease.

          -  Subjects with a positive stool culture for any enteric pathogens, pathogenic ova or
             parasites, or a positive EIA that is subsequently confirmed by a positive cytotoxin
             assay for C. difficile toxin. (Results for any enteric pathogens, pathogenic ova or
             parasites, but not C. difficile toxin, may be pending at the time of randomization
             and study drug initiation.)

          -  Subjects with a partial bowel obstruction, as documented by proximal small bowel
             dilation at Screening/Baseline.

        Additional exclusion criteria apply. Please see study Web site for additional information.
      
