TITLE:
Fruit and Vegetable Extracts in Treating Patients With Stage I-IV, Stage IVA/IVB Head and Neck Cancer

CONDITION:
Head and Neck Cancer

INTERVENTION:
fruit and vegetable extracts

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Chemoprevention therapy is the use of certain substances to try to prevent the
      development or recurrence of cancer. Fruit and vegetable extracts may be effective in
      preventing the recurrence or further development of head and neck cancer.

      PURPOSE: This randomized phase II trial is studying how well fruit and vegetable extracts
      work in preventing the recurrence of stage I, stage II, stage III, stage IVA, or stage IVB
      head and neck cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the disease-free survival of patients with stage I-IV (including stage IVA and
           IVB) head and neck cancer treated with fruit and vegetable extracts vs placebo.

        -  Compare the effect of these extracts on biomarkers (p27 expression, cell proliferation
           of Ki-67, DNA damage, and T-cell function) in these patients.

        -  Correlate changes in biomarkers with other factors (e.g., site and stage of the
           original tumors, tobacco/alcohol use, or depression) in patients treated with these
           extracts.

        -  Compare serum carotenoids and antioxidant levels (vitamins A, C, and E) at baseline and
           posttreatment in patients treated with these extracts.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study. Patients are
      stratified according to tobacco use (yes vs no), alcohol consumption (yes vs no), and tumor
      stage at diagnosis (I vs II vs III vs IVA vs IVB). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral fruit and vegetable extracts twice daily.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo twice daily. Treatment in both arms continues for
           12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed annually for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 200 patients (100 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 18 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Curatively treated stage I-IV (including stage IVA and IVB) squamous cell carcinoma
             of the upper aerodigestive tract of 1 of the following primary sites:

               -  Oral cavity

               -  Oropharynx

               -  Hypopharynx

               -  Larynx

          -  Disease-free for at least 6 months and no more than 3 years after completion of
             surgery, radiotherapy, and/or chemotherapy

          -  No synchronous tumors

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  Karnofsky 70-100% OR

          -  Zubrod 0-1

        Life expectancy

          -  At least 6 months

        Hematopoietic

          -  Hemoglobin  10 g/dL

          -  WBC  3,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count  100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin  1.5 mg/dL

          -  SGOT  40 U/L

          -  SGPT  56 U/L

        Renal

          -  Creatinine  1.5 mg/dL

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No other malignancy within the past 5 years except curatively treated head and neck
             squamous cell carcinoma, nonmelanoma skin cancer, or carcinoma in situ of the cervix

          -  No other serious medical or psychiatric illness that would preclude giving informed
             consent

          -  No nausea  grade 2

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  More than 6 months and less than 3 years since prior chemotherapy

          -  No concurrent chemotherapy

          -  No other concurrent chemopreventive agents

        Endocrine therapy

          -  More than 6 months and less than 3 years since prior hormonal therapy

        Radiotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  More than 6 months and less than 3 years since prior radiotherapy

          -  No concurrent radiotherapy

        Surgery

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  More than 6 months and less than 3 years since prior surgery

          -  No concurrent surgery

        Other

          -  More than 6 months and less than 3 years since prior investigational agents

          -  More than 2 months since prior high-dose vitamins (i.e., 10 times the recommended
             daily allowance [8,000-10,000 IU of vitamin A, 600 mg of vitamin C, or 80-100 IU of
             vitamin E])
      
