TITLE:
Endometrial Biopsy in Infertile Patients

CONDITION:
Infertility

INTERVENTION:
Endometrial biopsy

SUMMARY:

      When a woman becomes pregnant, the fertilized egg attaches itself to the lining of the
      uterus (endometrium). The endometrium is constantly changing throughout a womans menstrual
      cycle in response to the female hormones estrogen and progesterone. The endometrium must
      have certain characteristics (be at a specific phase in its cycle) in order for the
      fertilized egg to successfully attach. Infertility may be caused by an "out of phase"
      endometrium (i.e., the endometrium doesnt have the right characteristics when the
      fertilized egg reaches it). The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether the endometrial
      biopsy is useful in predicting the potential for becoming pregnant and bearing a child.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This study will evaluate the utility of the endometrial biopsy as a tool for the routine
      evaluation of the luteal phase of women presenting for infertility evaluation. The study
      will establish whether the mid-luteal or late-luteal phase is the most appropriate time to
      perform an endometrial biopsy. The study will be conducted through the multi-center
      Reproductive Medicine Network.

      Women with a history of infertility will be age matched to fertile women (controls). Women
      will be randomized either to the mid-luteal phase (7 to 8 days post-ovulation) endometrial
      biopsy group or to the late-luteal phase (12 to 13 days post-ovulation) endometrial biopsy
      group. Endometrial specimens will be evaluated histologically by a "blinded" pathologist.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 25 Years to 39 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria for Fertile Patients (controls)

          -  No history of involuntary primary or secondary infertility

          -  Willingness to discontinue hormonal contraceptives for 1 month prior to and through
             the duration of the study

          -  At least 1 child delivered within 24 months prior to study entry

          -  Most recent pregnancy resulting in a live birth (no interim spontaneous abortions)

          -  Tubal ligation within 24 months of study entry is acceptable if all other criteria
             are met

        Inclusion Criteria for Infertile Patients

          -  History of primary or secondary infertility for a period of at least 12 months

          -  No hormonal treatments in the month preceding study entry

          -  No history of tubal ligation
      
