TITLE:
Serum Sex Hormone Levels and Subclinical Atherosclerosis - Ancillary to MESA

CONDITION:
Cardiovascular Diseases

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      To assess the associations of serum sex hormones with the presence and progression of
      subclinical atherosclerosis.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      BACKGROUND:

      Throughout their lifetime, men are at higher risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) than
      women, however, after menopause this difference is attenuated. This observation suggests
      that endogenous sex hormones could be associated with CHD risk. There is some evidence
      indicating that the effect of sex hormones on CHD risk could be mediated, in part, by
      alterations in lipid levels or other CHD risk factors. However, other evidence supports an
      independent relationship of circulating hormone levels with CHD risk.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study, which is ancillary to MESA, will examine the associations of serum sex hormone
      concentrations with the presence and progression of subclinical atherosclerosis in 3,259
      male and 2,802 postmenopausal female participants of the Multi-Ethnic Study of
      Atherosclerosis (MESA). Subclinical atherosclerosis will be identified using both coronary
      artery calcium (CAC) and carotid intimal-medial wall thickness (IMT). Progression will be
      identified by the change in CAC over 3.5 years. Circulating concentrations of total (and
      free) testosterone (T), dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), 17 beta-estradiol (E2), and sex
      hormone binding globulin (SHBG) in stored serum samples collected at the MESA baseline exam
      will be assessed. Laboratory results will be merged with existing demographic,
      anthropometric, lifestyle, CHD risk factor, and subclinical disease data collected in MESA.
      Cross-sectional and prospective methods of statistical analysis will be used to assess the
      proposed associations. MESA is particularly well suited for disentangling the effects of
      hormonal factors and CHD risk factors on subclinical atherosclerosis because of the
      availability of high-quality data, serum samples, and CAC and IMT measurements in a large
      multi-ethnic population of men and women.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 45 Years to 84 Years
Criteria:

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Age younger than 45 or older than 84 years

          -  Physician-diagnosed heart attack

          -  Physician-diagnosed angina or taking nitroglycerin

          -  Physician-diagnosed stroke or TIA

          -  Physician-diagnosed heart failure

          -  Current atrial fibrillation

          -  Having undergone procedures related to cardiovascular disease (CABG, angioplasty,
             valve replacement, pacemaker or defibrillator implantation, any surgery on the heart
             or arteries)

          -  Active treatment for cancer

          -  Pregnancy

          -  Any serious medical condition which would prevent long-term participation

          -  Weight >300 pounds

          -  Cognitive inability as judged by the interviewer

          -  Living in a nursing home or on the waiting list for a nursing home

          -  Plans to leave the community within five years

          -  Language barrier (speaks other than English, Spanish, Cantonese or Mandarin)

          -  Chest CT scan in the past year
      
