TITLE:
Epstein Barr Virus (EBV) Specific Cytotoxic T-Cells, Relapsed Lymphoma, ANGEL

CONDITION:
Epstein-Barr Virus-Related Hodgkin Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
Injection of EBV Specific CTLs

SUMMARY:

      Patients have a type of lymph gland cancer called Hodgkin or non-Hodgkin Lymphoma which has
      come back or not gone away after treatment, including the best treatment known for relapsed
      Lymphoma.

      Patients are being asked to volunteer to be in a research study using Epstein Barr virus
      specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes, a new experimental therapy. This therapy has never been
      used in patients with Hodgkin disease or this type of non-Hodgkin Lymphoma but it has been
      used successfully in children with other types of blood cancer caused by EBV after bone
      marrow transplantation. Some patients with Hodgkin or non-Hodgkin Lymphoma show evidence of
      infection with the virus that causes infectious mononucleosis Epstein Barr virus before or
      at the time of their diagnosis of the Lymphoma. EBV is often found in the cancer cells
      suggesting that it may play a role in causing Lymphoma. The cancer cells infected by EBV are
      very clever because they are able to hide from the body's immune system and escape
      destruction. Investigators want to see if it's possible to grow special white blood cells,
      called T cells, that have been trained to kill EBV infected cells.

      Purpose The purpose of this study is to find the largest safe dose of EBV specific cytotoxic
      T cells, to learn what the side effects are and to see whether this therapy might help
      patients with Hodgkin disease and non-Hodgkin Lymphoma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      The investigators will take 60-70 ml (12 teaspoonfuls) of blood from the patient to make a B
      cell line called a lymphoblastoid cell line or LCL by infecting the blood with a laboratory
      strain of EBV called B95-8. The investigators will then use this EBV infected cell line
      (which have been treated with radiation so that they cannot grow) as stimulator cells and
      mix it with more blood. This stimulation will train the T cells to kill EBV infected cells
      and result in the growth of an EBV specific T cell line. The investigators will then test
      the T cells to make sure that they kill the EBV infected cells and not normal cells and
      freeze them.

      Patients will be entered into one of three different dosing schedules being evaluated. Three
      to six patients will be evaluated on each dosing schedule. Escalation will continue until
      irreversible or life threatening side effects considered to be related to the T cells are
      seen.

      The cells will then be thawed and injected into the patients' vein over 10 minutes, after
      pretreatment with Tylenol and Benadryl. Tylenol and Benadryl are given to prevent a possible
      allergic reaction to the T cell administration. Initially, two doses of T cells will be
      given two weeks apart. If after the second infusion there is a reduction in the size of the
      patient's lymphoma on CT or MRI scan as assessed by a radiologist, the patient can receive
      up to six additional doses of the T cells. All of the treatments will be given at Texas
      Children's Hospital or the Methodist Hospital.

      Patients will be followed in the clinic after the injections. To learn more about the way
      the T cells are working and how long they last in the body, an extra 40 mls (8 teaspoonfuls)
      of blood will be taken before each infusion and then 24 hours after each infusion, 3-4 days
      after each infusion and at 1, 2, 4, and 6 weeks post infusion and then at 3, 6, 9 and 12
      months post infusion. The blood may be drawn from the central line at the time of regular
      blood tests. This blood will be used to test for the frequency and activity of EBV specific
      T cells. A total of at least 122 teaspoons (approximately 40 tablespoons) of blood will be
      collected during participation in this study.

      If the patient decide to withdraw at any time during the study both samples and data
      collected during participation will be maintained.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION CRITERIA:

          -  Any patient with EBV positive Hodgkin disease or non-Hodgkin Lymphoma, or plasma cell
             neoplasms in second relapse regardless of age or sex, in first relapse or with
             primary disease or in first remission if immunosuppressive chemotherapy
             contraindicated, e.g. patients who develop Hodgkin disease after solid organ
             transplantation or if the Lymphoma is a second malignancy e.g. a Richters
             transformation of CLL.

          -  Life expectancy of greater than 6 weeks.

          -  No severe intercurrent infection

          -  Patient, parent/guardian able to give informed consent

          -  Bilirubin <2x normal,

          -  SGOT <3x normal,

          -  Hgb greater than 8.0 g/L

          -  Creatinine <2x normal for age

          -  Must have been off other investigational therapy for one month prior to entry in this
             study.

          -  Karnofsky score of greater than or equal to 50.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

          -  Patient with an EBV positive NHL secondary to an acquired immunodeficiency.

          -  Patients who are HIV positive

          -  Patient, parent/guardian unable to give informed consent

          -  Patients with a Karnofsky score of < 50.

          -  Patients with a life expectancy of <6 weeks

          -  Patients with a bilirubin greater than 2x normal. SGOT greater than 3x normal

          -  Patients with a creatinine greater than 2x normal for age

          -  Due to unknown effects of this therapy on a fetus, pregnant women are excluded from
             this research. The male partner should use a condom.

        Note: Patients who would be excluded from the protocol strictly for laboratory
        abnormalities can be included at the investigator's discretion after approval by the CCGT
        Protocol Review Committee and the FDA reviewer.
      
