TITLE:
Gefitinib and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Advanced or Recurrent Colorectal Cancer

CONDITION:
Adenocarcinoma of the Colon

INTERVENTION:
irinotecan hydrochloride

SUMMARY:

      Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining gefitinib with fluorouracil,
      leucovorin, and irinotecan in treating patients who have advanced or recurrent colorectal
      cancer. Biological therapies such as gefitinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by
      blocking the enzymes necessary for tumor cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy use
      different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining
      gefitinib with fluorouracil, leucovorin, and irinotecan may kill more tumor cells
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the safety of gefitinib, fluorouracil, leucovorin calcium, and irinotecan in
      patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer.

      II. Determine the major side effects of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine the
      response rate, progression-free survival, and overall survival of patients treated with this
      regimen.

      IV. Correlate response and other measures of outcome with epidermal growth factor receptor
      expression and the expression of genes that impact upon pathways of fluoropyrimidine
      cytotoxicity in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a non-randomized, open-label, multi-center study.

      Patients receive oral gefitinib daily beginning on day 1, irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on
      days 1 and 15, and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours and fluorouracil IV over 3-5 seconds
      followed by a 22-hour infusion on days 1, 2, 15, and 16. Courses repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Histologically confirmed advanced (stage IV) or recurrent adenocarcinoma of the colon
             or rectum

          -  Must have available tissue for immunohistochemical analysis

          -  At least one unidimensionally measurable lesion

               -  At least 20 mm by conventional techniques OR at least 10 mm by spiral CT scan

               -  Tumor marker (carcinoembryonic antigen) elevation alone is insufficient for
                  study entry

          -  No known brain metastases

          -  Performance status - ECOG 0-2

          -  Granulocyte count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  AST less than 2 times ULN (5 times ULN if liver involvement of tumor)

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 times ULN

          -  No symptomatic congestive heart failure

          -  No unstable angina pectoris

          -  No cardiac arrhythmia

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  HIV negative

          -  No other severe or uncontrolled concurrent illness that would adversely impact the
             safety or efficacy of study therapy

          -  No ongoing or active infection

          -  No other prior malignancy unless curatively treated and no evidence of recurrence

          -  No history of allergic reactions attributed to compounds of similar chemical or
             biologic composition to gefitinib

          -  No psychiatric illness or social situation that would preclude study compliance

          -  No prior chemotherapy for advanced disease

          -  More than 4 weeks since other prior chemotherapy (6 weeks for nitrosoureas or
             mitomycin) and recovered

          -  More than 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy and recovered

          -  At least 6 months since prior adjuvant therapy

          -  No prior epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor

          -  No other concurrent investigational agents

          -  No other concurrent anticancer therapy

          -  No concurrent phenytoin, carbamazepine, barbiturates, rifampin, rifapentine,
             oxacarbazepine, modafinil, griseofulvin, or Hypericum perforatum
      
