TITLE:
Cyclophosphamide, Rituximab, and Either Prednisone or Methylprednisolone in Treating Patients With Lymphoproliferative Disease After Solid Organ Transplantation

CONDITION:
Lymphoproliferative Disorder

INTERVENTION:
rituximab

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy such as cyclophosphamide, prednisone, and
      methylprednisolone use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop
      growing or die. Monoclonal antibodies such as rituximab can locate cancer cells and either
      kill them or deliver cancer-killing substances to them without harming normal cells.
      Combining cyclophosphamide and either prednisone or methylprednisolone with rituximab may be
      effective in treating lymphoproliferative disease following organ transplantation.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining cyclophosphamide and either
      prednisone or methylprednisolone with rituximab in treating patients who have Epstein-Barr
      virus-positive lymphoproliferative disease following organ transplantation.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety and toxicity of cyclophosphamide, rituximab, and prednisone or
           methylprednisolone in patients with CD20-positive and Epstein-Barr virus-positive
           post-transplant lymphoproliferative disease (PTLD) after solid organ transplantation.

        -  Determine the 2-year event-free survival, defined as alive and in continuous complete
           remission with a functioning original allograft, of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the PTLD gene expression profile by microarray analysis and fluorescent in
           situ hybridization in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the accrual rate of patients to this study.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 and oral prednisone or
      methylprednisolone IV twice daily on days 1-5. During courses 1 and 2 only, patients also
      receive rituximab IV over 2-5 hours on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression, a new primary or secondary
      malignancy, or unrelated disease.

      After finishing study treatment, patients are followed periodically for at least 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60 patients (50 with non-fulminant post-transplant
      lymphoproliferative disease [PTLD] and 10 fulminant PTLD) will be accrued for this study
      within 2.5-3 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 30 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed post-transplant lymphoproliferative disease (PTLD)

               -  Presents with 1 of the following:

                    -  Fulminant PTLD (F-PTLD)

                         -  Fever greater than 38C

                         -  Hypotensive (for age)

                         -  Evidence of multiple organ involvement/failure, including at least 2
                            of the following:

                              -  Marrow (including pancytopenia without detectable B-cell
                                 proliferation)

                              -  Liver (coagulopathy, transaminitis, and/or hyperbilirubinemia)

                              -  Lungs (interstitial pneumonitis with or without pleural
                                 effusions)

                              -  Gastrointestinal tract hemorrhage

                    -  Non-fulminant PTLD (NF-PTLD)

                         -  Does not meet the above F-PTLD criteria

                         -  Considered medically refractory to reduced immune suppression (50% or
                            more reduction of immunosuppression) for at least 1 week

          -  CD20 positive AND Epstein-Barr virus positive

          -  Must have received prior solid organ transplantation

          -  Must have residual disease after biopsy and/or surgery

          -  No PTLD central nervous system (CNS) disease, defined as positive cytology and/or
             radiographic evidence

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  Under 31

        Performance status

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy

          -  NF-PTLD patients:

               -  At least 8 weeks

        Hematopoietic

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Hepatic

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Renal

          -  Not specified

        Pulmonary

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  HIV negative

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  More than 1 month since prior rituximab

        Chemotherapy

          -  More than 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy and recovered

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Surgery

          -  See Disease Characteristics
      
