TITLE:
Alzheimer's Disease: Therapeutic Potential of Estrogen

CONDITION:
Alzheimer Disease

INTERVENTION:
Transdermal estradiol

SUMMARY:

      This is a 15-month study to determine the effectiveness of hormone replacement therapy in
      improving memory and the ability to live independently in postmenopausal women with
      Alzheimer's disease.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Estrogen is a naturally occurring hormone produced in a woman's body. The purpose of this
      15-month study is to determine the effectiveness of hormone replacement therapy in improving
      memory and the ability to live independently in postmenopausal women with Alzheimer's
      disease and without other dementias.

      Patients who volunteer for this study will either receive a patch containing 17--estradiol
      or will receive an inactive placebo patch. In addition, patients will be given either
      medroxyprogesterone or an inactive placebo pill. Neither the volunteers nor the study staff
      will know which type of patch or pill a patient receives. Patients must be generally healthy
      and have mild-to-moderate dementia. There must be a patient caregiver who can watch for side
      effects and ensure that the patient takes the study medications on schedule. Patients will
      undergo neuropsychological tests and an evaluation of the ability to live independently at
      each visit as well as laboratory evaluations, such as the taking of blood. Each visit will
      last approximately 3 hours. A total of 160 participants are being recruited.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 55 Years to 90 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Postmenopausal women with Alzheimer's disease and without other dementias (diagnosed
             by study staff or from an outside clinic)

          -  Mini Mental State Examination score greater than 15/30

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  History of cancer of reproductive tissues

          -  History of deep vein thrombosis or blot clots

          -  Diabetes

          -  Heart disease or stroke

          -  Liver problems including hepatitis

          -  Severe vision or hearing problems

          -  Tobacco use

          -  Lack of an adequate caregiver

          -  inability to perform psychometric testing
      
