TITLE:
Periodontitis and Cardiovascular Events or "PAVE"

CONDITION:
Cardiovascular Disease

INTERVENTION:
Periodontal Treatment: SRP

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to determine if treating periodontal infections (gum problems)
      will lead to fewer heart problems in patients at high risk for cardiovascular disease.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      There is growing evidence of a strong association between infection and atherosclerosis as
      well as a specific link between periodontal infection (gum problems) and heart disease.
      Previous studies have established possible effective treatments of periodontal disease.
      These treatments may lead to fewer heart events in persons at high risk for cardiovascular
      disease. In contrast to previous heart disease studies, the primary treatment in this
      project is directed toward infectious agents at periodontal sites. This project is a pilot
      randomized clinical trial to test the feasibility of selecting and refining a periodontal
      infection treatment and examining the effect of that treatment on future heart events. It is
      a multi-center planning and pilot study involving five investigational centers at the
      University at Buffalo (lead and overall coordinating center), University of North Carolina,
      Boston University, Kaiser Permanente/Oregon Health Science University, University of
      Maryland, and a data coordinating center at the University of North Carolina. Central
      microbiology and cytokine laboratories and a biologic specimen bank are also included. A
      team of cardiologists, periodontists, epidemiologists, infectious disease specialists,
      biostatisticians, research nurses in periodontics and cardiology, and data managers has been
      assembled to accomplish the research with a careful, cost-effective approach. The ultimate
      goal is to develop a definitive randomized clinical trial that will include about 4,000
      participants from approximately 15 centers across the United States
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 75 Years
Criteria:

        Eligibility:

          -  Aged 75 years or less AND 50% or more blockage of at least one artery in the heart,

          -  Heart problems in the last 3 years (including previous heart attack),

          -  Previous heart bypass surgery, or previous heart angioplasty with or without a stent,
             AND at least 6 natural teeth present in the mouth AND evidence of mild to severe gum
             problems.

        Exclusion:

        Any of the following:

          -  A major illness requiring hospitalization,

          -  Renal dialysis,

          -  Serum creatinine > 3 mg/dl,

          -  Organ transplant recipient requiring immunosuppression medication,

          -  Surgery needed in the next 3 years,

          -  Chemotherapy in the past 3 years,

          -  Head and/or neck radiation at any time in the past,

          -  Liver dysfunction,

          -  Class IV congestive heart failure,

          -  Drug or alcohol abuse,

          -  Pacemaker or AICD/defibrillator.
      
