TITLE:
Trial Comparing Effects of Xyrem Taken Orally and Modafinil With Placebo in Treating Daytime Sleepiness in Narcolepsy

CONDITION:
Narcolepsy

INTERVENTION:
Xyrem

SUMMARY:

      This study will be conducted as a randomized, double blind, double-dummy,
      placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial in patients diagnosed with narcolepsy. Volunteers
      for this trial will be required to make 5 visits over up to 14 weeks to a participating
      expert physician practitioner for various sleep and narcolepsy evaluations and diaries will
      also be collected. Participants will take assigned medications during the course of the
      trial. Subjects will have a 25% probability of receiving placebo for both drugs (modafinil
      and Xyrem). All subject volunteers must meet criteria for narcolepsy and have evidence of
      daytime sleepiness. Patients will not incur any personal medical expenses due to
      participation in this trial. The sponsor is covering all visit costs not covered by
      insurance and there are some funds for patient expenses such as travel.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION CRITERIA

        Patients will be included in the trial if they:

          -  Have signed and dated an informed consent prior to beginning protocol required
             procedures.

          -  Are willing and able to complete the entire trial as described in the protocol.

          -  Are 18 years of age or older.

          -  Fulfill the International Classification of Sleep Disorders criteria for the
             diagnosis of narcolepsy.

          -  Are taking stable doses of modafinil (200 to 600 mg/day) for the treatment of daytime
             sleepiness for a period of three months or greater and the modafinil dose has been
             stable for at least 1 month prior to entering this trial

          -  Females may be included who are surgically sterile, two years post-menopausal, or if
             of child-bearing potential, using a medically accepted method of birth control (e.g.,
             barrier method with spermicide, oral contraceptive, or abstinence) and agree to
             continue use of this method for the duration of the trial.

          -  In the opinion of the investigator have adequate support for the duration of the
             trial to include transportation to and from the trial site. In addition, if in the
             investigator's assessment it is clinically indicated, the patient is willing to not
             operate a car or heavy machinery for the duration of the trial or for as long as the
             investigator deems clinically indicated.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA

        Patients will be excluded from the trial if they:

          -  Have received gamma-hydroxybutyrate in the last 30 days.

          -  Have taken any investigational therapy within the 30-day period prior to the initial
             screening visit (Visit 1) for this trial.

          -  Have sleep apnea syndrome, defined as an Apnea Index > 10 per hour or an AHI (Apnea
             Hypopnea Index) greater than 15 per hour, or have any other cause of daytime
             sleepiness, and have any other disorder(s) that can be considered a primary cause of
             excessive daytime sleepiness (e.g., severe periodic leg movement syndrome as
             determined by the investigator, sleep apnea, sleep deprivation).

          -  Are taking hypnotics, tranquilizers, antihistamines (except for non-sedating
             antihistamines), benzodiazepines or clonidine at the start of the baseline period.
             Patients taking anticonvulsants are not eligible to participate event if they are
             willing to washout anticonvulsants for the trial.

          -  Are experiencing any major illness, including unstable cardiovascular, endocrine,
             neoplastic, gastrointestinal, hematologic, hepatic, immunologic, metabolic,
             neurological (other than narcolepsy/cataplexy), pulmonary, and/or renal disease which
             would place the patient at risk during the trial or compromise the objectives
             outlined in the protocol.

          -  Have psychiatric disorders, major affective or psychotic disorders, or other problems
             that, in the investigator's opinion, would preclude the patient's participation and
             completion of this trial or compromise reliable representation of subjective
             symptoms.

          -  Have a current or recent (within one year) history of a substance use disorder
             including alcohol abuse as defined by the DSM-IV.

          -  Have a serum creatinine greater than 2.0 mg/dL, abnormal liver function tests (SGOT
             [AST] or SGPT [ALT] more than twice the upper limit of normal), or elevated serum
             bilirubin (more than 1.5 times the upper limit of normal), or pre-trial ECG results
             demonstrating clinically significant arrhythmias, greater than a first degree AV
             block or a history of myocardial infarction within the last six months.

          -  Have an occupation that requires variable shift work or routine night shift.

          -  Have a clinically significant history of seizure disorder either past or present, a
             history of clinically significant head trauma (i.e., concussion resulting in
             clinically significant loss of consciousness) or past invasive intracranial surgery,
             and are taking anticonvulsant medications.
      
