TITLE:
Oxaliplatin and Bortezomib in Treating Patients With Advanced Cancer

CONDITION:
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific

INTERVENTION:
oxaliplatin

SUMMARY:

      Phase I trial to study the effect on the body of combining oxaliplatin with bortezomib in
      treating patients who have metastatic or unresectable cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy
      such as oxaliplatin use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop
      growing or die. Bortezomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking the enzymes
      necessary for tumor cell growth. Combining oxaliplatin with bortezomib may kill more cancer
      cells
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of oxaliplatin and
      bortezomib in patients with advanced malignancy.

      II. Determine the dose-limiting toxicity of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine
      the toxicity profile of this regimen in these patients. IV. Determine the antitumor activity
      of this regimen in these patients. V. Determine the pattern of neurotoxicity and its
      reversibility in patients responding to prolonged administration of this treatment regimen.

      VI. Determine whether the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of oxaliplatin or bortezomib
      are altered by the administration of the other agent in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on days 1 and 15 and bortezomib IV over 3-5
      seconds on days 1, 4, 15, and 18. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of oxaliplatin and bortezomib until the
      maximum tolerated doses (MTDs) are determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that
      at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed for at least 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15-30 patients will be accrued for this study within 4-15
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Histologically confirmed malignancy for which standard curative or palliative
             measures do not exist or are no longer effective

               -  Metastatic or unresectable disease

          -  No known brain metastases

          -  Performance status - ECOG 0-2

          -  Performance status - Karnofsky 60-100

          -  More than 6 months

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

          -  Bilirubin normal

          -  AST and ALT no greater than 5 times upper limit of normal

          -  Creatinine no greater than 1.5 mg/dL

          -  No symptomatic congestive heart failure

          -  No unstable angina pectoris

          -  No cardiac arrhythmia

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No history of allergic reactions attributed to compounds of similar chemical or
             biological composition to any platinum or other study agents

          -  No pre-existing peripheral neuropathy

          -  No ongoing or active infection

          -  No psychiatric illness or social situation that would preclude study compliance

          -  No other concurrent uncontrolled illness

          -  Prior thalidomide allowed provided patient has no clinical neuropathy

          -  Prior platinum or antitubulin agents allowed provided patient has no clinical
             neuropathy

          -  At least 3 weeks since prior chemotherapy (6 weeks for nitrosoureas and mitomycin)
             and recovered

          -  More than 3 weeks since prior radiotherapy and recovered

          -  No concurrent combination antiretroviral therapy for HIV-positive patients

          -  No other concurrent investigational or commercial agents or therapies for the
             malignancy
      
