TITLE:
Sirolimus in Treating Patients With Glioblastoma Multiforme

CONDITION:
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors

INTERVENTION:
Rapamycin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Chemotherapy drugs such as sirolimus use different ways to stop tumor cells from
      dividing so they stop growing or die. Giving a chemotherapy drug before surgery may shrink
      the tumor so that it can be removed during surgery.

      PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of sirolimus in treating patients who
      have glioblastoma multiforme that did not respond to previous radiation therapy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of sirolimus in patients with glioblastoma
           multiforme.

        -  Determine the safety profile of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the efficacy of this drug, in terms of 6-month progression-free survival and
           objective response, in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

        -  Phase I: Patients receive oral sirolimus for 5-7 days before surgery. Patients then
           undergo surgical resection. Patients resume oral sirolimus once daily after full
           recovery from surgery. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of sirolimus until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive oral sirolimus as in phase I at the dose determined in that
           phase.

      Patients are followed for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-12 patients will be accrued for phase I of the study within
      3-12 months. A total of 32 patients will be accrued for phase II of the study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed intracranial glioblastoma multiforme

          -  Disease progression by MRI or CT scan

               -  Confirmation of true progressive disease (not radiation necrosis) by
                  positron-emission tomography, thallium scanning, MRI, or surgical documentation
                  required if patient received prior interstitial brachytherapy or stereotactic
                  radiosurgery

          -  Failed prior radiotherapy

          -  Phase I patients:

               -  Eligible for salvage surgery

               -  No limits on prior therapy

          -  Phase II patients:

               -  Tumor progression by MRI or CT scan required within the past 14 days if
                  recurrent disease is present

               -  No prior therapy for more than 3 relapses

               -  Recent resection of recurrent or progressive tumor allowed as long as all of the
                  following conditions apply:

                    -  Recovered from surgery

                    -  MRI or CT scan performed no more than 96 hours since prior surgery OR
                       within 4-6 weeks after surgery

                    -  Baseline MRI or CT scan performed within 14 days of study entry

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  Karnofsky 60-100%

        Life expectancy

          -  More than 8 weeks

        Hematopoietic

          -  WBC at least 3,000/mm^3

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 2,000/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin at least 10 g/dL (transfusion allowed)

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin less than 1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  SGOT less than 1.5 times ULN

        Renal

          -  Creatinine less than 1.5 mg/dL

        Other

          -  Cholesterol less than 350 mg/dL

          -  Triglycerides less than 400 mg/dL

          -  No concurrent disease that would obscure toxicity or dangerously alter drug
             metabolism

          -  No other significant uncontrolled serious medical illness that would preclude study
             participation

          -  No other cancer except non-melanoma skin cancer or carcinoma in situ of the cervix
             unless patient is in complete remission and off all therapy for that disease for at
             least 3 years

          -  No active infection

          -  No prior allergic reactions to compounds of similar chemical or biological
             composition to sirolimus

          -  No psychiatric illness that would preclude study participation

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective barrier contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  At least 1 week since prior interferon

        Chemotherapy

          -  At least 2 weeks since prior vincristine

          -  At least 3 weeks since prior procarbazine

          -  At least 6 weeks since prior nitrosoureas

        Endocrine therapy

          -  At least 1 week since prior tamoxifen

        Radiotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy

        Surgery

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Other

          -  Recovered from prior therapy

          -  At least 1 week since prior noncytotoxic agents (except radiosensitizers)
      
