TITLE:
Drug Treatment for Autism

CONDITION:
Autistic Disorder

INTERVENTION:
Donepezil HCl

SUMMARY:

      This 11-week study will examine the safety and effectiveness of the medication donepezil
      (Aricept) compared to placebo for treating cognitive deficits in children and adolescents
      with Autism Spectrum Disorder.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) often have impaired communication, problems
      with social interaction, and repetitive and stereotyped patterns of behavior. While most
      research has attempted to treat the behavioral deficits commonly associated with ASD, few
      studies have attempted to improve the core features of this disorder. A recent study found
      that donepezil HCl helped to improve speech production, attention span, and ability to
      express emotions in a group of children with autism. This study will provide an opportunity
      to conduct further testing of the effects of donepezil HCl on the cognitive deficits
      presumed to underlie the core features of ASD.

      This study begins at Week 1 with a baseline assessment. Participants are then randomly
      assigned to either donepezil HCl or placebo. Participants will start with either a 5mg/day
      dose of donepezil HCl or placebo followed by a cognitive assessment after 4 weeks on this
      dose. Participants will then have their dose increased to 10mg/day. Another cognitive
      assessment will be given after 4 weeks on this dose.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 8 Years to 17 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)

          -  Asperger's Disorder

          -  IQ of 75 or above

          -  Baseline assessment tests within the acceptable range

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, or psychotic disorder

          -  Seizure disorder requiring the use of anticonvulsant medications

          -  Congenital rubella, cytomegalovirus, or tuberous sclerosis

          -  Certain medications prescribed for management of behavior (please contact the
             investigator for a complete list)

          -  Medications/preparations that are known to interact with donepezil HCl

          -  Significant medical illness, endocrinopathies, cardiovascular disease, or severe
             chronic malnutrition

          -  Pregnancy or sexually active females not using a reliable method of contraception
      
