TITLE:
Secondary Prevention of Small Subcortical Strokes Trial

CONDITION:
Cerebrovascular Accident

INTERVENTION:
aspirin

SUMMARY:

      The goal of this study is to learn if combination antiplatelet therapy (aspirin and
      clopidogrel) is more effective than aspirin alone for the prevention of recurrent stroke and
      cognitive decline, and if intensive blood pressure control is associated with fewer
      recurrent strokes and cognitive decline.

      On July 21, 2011 the DSMB recommended terminating the anti platelet arm of the study due to
      an imbalance of overall and major non-CNS hemorrhagic SAE's and total deaths in the
      investigational anti platelet combination of aspirin + clopidogrel and an interim
      statistical analysis that demonstrated futility in the investigational anti platelet arm. It
      was recommended that patients be continued on standard care of aspirin mono therapy until
      their study close-out visit. Also, recommended the continuation and completion of the plood
      pressure arm following the protocol.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Stroke is damage to the brain caused by problems in the blood vessels. Strokes often cause
      paralysis, loss of sensation and speech, and other problems. A lacunar or small Subcortical
      stroke affects the inner part of the brain causing small "pea sized" areas of damage due to
      blockage of small blood vessels within the brain.

      This multi-center study will recruit 3000 participants (20 percent of whom will be Hispanic)
      to find out if using aspirin and clopidogrel is more effective than using aspirin alone to
      prevent recurrent stroke in patients with lacunar stroke confirmed by MRI, and if lowering a
      patient's blood pressure below the usual limits will also help prevent recurrent stroke and
      maintain thinking ability. Both aspirin and clopidogrel are widely-used for blood clotting
      and stroke prevention. Investigators intend to find out if using the drugs together is more
      effective than using aspirin alone.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of 2 types of treatment: either aspirin alone
      or the combination of aspirin and clopidogrel. In addition, participants will be assigned to
      one of 2 groups of blood pressure control. The difference between the two groups is the
      target level of systolic blood pressureeither 130-149 or below 130. The goal of the blood
      pressure aspect of this trial is to find out if lowering blood pressure after stroke helps
      to prevent recurrent stroke and preserves cognition.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 30 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION:

        Small subcortical ischemic stroke or subcortical TIA.

        Inclusion criteria are based on TOAST criteria supplemented by required MRI data. All of
        the following criteria must be met:

          -  One of the lacunar stroke clinical syndromes (adapted from Fisher) lasting > 24 hrs
             within the past 6 months

          -  Absence of signs or symptoms of cortical dysfunction such as aphasia, apraxia,
             agnosia, agraphia, homonymous visual field defect, etc.

          -  No ipsilateral cervical carotid stenosis (50%) by a reliable imaging modality done
             in an approved laboratory since the qualifying small subcortical stroke (S3), if
             hemispheric.

          -  No major-risk cardioembolic sources requiring anticoagulation or other specific
             therapy. Minor-risk cardioembolic sources will be permitted if anticoagulation is not
             prescribed by the patient's primary care physician.

          -  Subcortical TIA with corresponding lesion on DWI.

          -  MRI evidence of S3: a. Presence of an S3 (1.5 and 2 cm in diameter corresponding to
             the qualifying event on DWI; when TIA, ADC image must confirm lesion or T2/FLAIR
             (hyperintense lesions) (required for all brainstem events) OR multiple S3s on
             FLAIR/TI(<1.5 cm in diameter) (hypointense lesions) b. Absence of cortical stroke and
             large subcortical stroke (recent or remote).

        EXCLUSION:

        To be eligible for entry into the study, the patient must not meet any of the criteria
        listed below:

          -  Disabling stroke (Modified Rankin Scale less than or equal to 4)

          -  Previous intracranial hemorrhage (excluding traumatic) or hemorrhagic stroke

          -  Age under 30 years

          -  High risk of bleeding (e.g. recurrent GI or GU bleeding, active peptic ulcer disease,
             etc)

          -  Anticipated requirement for long-term use of anticoagulants (e.g. recurrent DVT) or
             other antiplatelets

          -  Prior cortical stroke (diagnosed either clinically or by neuroimaging), or prior
             cortical or retinal TIA

          -  Prior ipsilateral carotid endarterectomy

          -  Impaired renal function: GFR <40

          -  Intolerance or contraindications to aspirin or clopidogrel (including
             thrombocytopenia, prolonged INR)

          -  A score < 24 (adjusted for age and education) on the Folstein Mini Mental Status
             Examination

          -  Medical contraindication to MRI

          -  Pregnancy or women of child-bearing potential who are not following an effective
             method of contraception

          -  Geographic or social factors making study participation impractical

          -  Unable or unwilling to provide informed consent

          -  Unlikely to be compliant with therapy/unwilling to return for frequent clinic visits

          -  Patients concurrently participating in another study with an investigational drug or
             device

          -  Other likely specific cause of stroke (e.g. dissection, vasculitis, prothrombotic
             diathesis, drug abuse)
      
