TITLE:
Anal Sphincter Prosthesis in Treating Patients Who Are Undergoing Surgery for Anal or Rectal Cancer

CONDITION:
Anal Cancer

INTERVENTION:
conventional surgery

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: An anal sphincter prosthesis may replace the need for a permanent colostomy and
      may improve the quality of life of patients who are undergoing surgery for anal or rectal
      cancer.

      PURPOSE: Clinical trial to study the effectiveness of an anal sphincter prosthesis in
      treating patients who have anal or rectal cancer and are undergoing surgery to remove the
      anus and rectum.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the risk of complications and feasibility of total anorectal reconstruction
           using the Acticon Neosphincter prosthesis after abdominoperineal resection in patients
           with anal or rectal cancer.

        -  Determine continence, bowel function, and quality of life of patients treated with this
           surgery.

      OUTLINE: Patients undergo abdominoperineal resection (APR) with perineal colostomy and
      diverting loop ileostomy. At least 3 months after APR, patients undergo placement of the
      Acticon Neosphincter prosthesis. At least 6 weeks after prosthesis placement, the prosthesis
      is activated. When the patient demonstrates the ability to operate the prosthesis, the
      ileostomy is reversed.

      Quality of life is assessed at 6 and 12 months and then annually thereafter.

      Patients are followed at 6 and 12 months and then annually thereafter.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Subject Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Histologically proven cancer of distal rectum or anus

          -  Not candidates for sphincter preservation

          -  > or = 18 years of age

          -  an acceptable risk for surgery and general anesthesia

          -  sufficient dexterity and mental capacity to operate the device

          -  willing and able to give valid Informed Consent

        Subject Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with recurrent anorectal cancer

          -  Patients with metastatic anorectal cancer

          -  Patients at high risk for local recurrence

          -  Patients with active pelvic sepsis

          -  Patients currently enrolled in another study involving an investigational product
      
