TITLE:
Oblimersen and Interferon Alfa in Treating Patients With Metastatic Renal Cell Cancer

CONDITION:
Recurrent Renal Cell Cancer

INTERVENTION:
recombinant interferon alfa

SUMMARY:

      Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining oblimersen with interferon alfa in
      treating patients who have metastatic renal cell (kidney) cancer. Interferon alfa may
      interfere with the growth of tumor cells. Oblimersen may increase the effectiveness of
      interferon alfa by making tumor cells more sensitive to the drug.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the objective response rate of metastatic renal cancer to the combination of
      G3139 plus -Interferon (-IFN).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To further assess the clinical toxicity of this combination. II. To evaluate the impact
      of G3139 plus -IFN on molecular targets involved in the regulation of apoptosis in tumor
      cells and lymphocytes.

      III. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of G3139 when given with -IFN at this dose and
      schedule.

      IV. To evaluate the potential toxicity of this combination on cells of the immune system.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive oblimersen IV continuously on days 1-7 and interferon alfa subcutaneously
      on days 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 of course 1 and on days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10, and 12 of all subsequent
      courses. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients achieving a complete remission (CR) receive an additional 2 courses past
      CR.

      Patients are followed for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 21-41 patients will be accrued for this study within 20-24
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 19 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Histologically confirmed, measurable metastatic renal cell cancer; if a nephrectomy
             was performed in the setting of metastatic disease, post-nephrectomy progression of
             metastases must be documented

          -  Performance status 0-2 (SWOG), life expectancy > 3 months

          -  Prior radiation must have been completed > 4 weeks before enrollment, with measurable
             disease outside of the radiation port

          -  WBC > 3500/l

          -  Absolute neutrophil count > 1500/l

          -  Platelets > 100,000/l

          -  Transaminases < 2 x institutional upper limit of normal

          -  Serum bilirubin < 1.5 x institutional upper limit of normal (if Gilbert's, up to 2 x
             upper limit)

          -  Serum alkaline phosphatase < 2.5 x institutional upper limit of normal

          -  Patients with hepatic metastases may have 50% higher levels of all the above-listed
             parameters

          -  Serum creatinine < 1.5 x institutional upper limit of normal

          -  Patients with active or recently-treated autoimmune disease are excluded, as are
             patients currently receiving or expected to require corticosteroid therapy

          -  Prior malignancy is limited to adequately treated non-melanoma skin cancer, cervical
             carcinoma-in-situ, or any other malignancy for which the patient has been
             disease-free for at least 5 years

          -  Because the effects of G3139 on the unborn fetus or newborn infant are unknown,
             pregnant or lactating women are excluded, and patients with reproductive potential
             must agree to use a medically-acceptable form of birth control

          -  Patients must have fully recovered from the effects of any prior surgery or medical
             illness such as infection; those with psychosocial problems that might compromise
             safety or protocol compliance are excluded

          -  Central venous access is required

          -  Patients may have received up to two prior biological therapy regimens, excluding
             exposure to either of the therapy agents and patients may have had no more than one
             prior chemotherapy regimen; full recovery from all toxicities must have occurred; for
             high-dose IL-2, at least 8 weeks must have elapsed since prior treatment

          -  Written, voluntary informed consent

          -  Previous chemotherapy must have been completed at least 3 weeks before treatment
             under this protocol can be initiated

          -  Patients with a history of brain metastases, or who are currently being treated, or
             have untreated brain metastases, are not eligible; Note: if patient received steroid
             therapy, at least three weeks must have elapsed prior to entry on this protocol

          -  Patients must have normal baseline PT/PTT; Note: For those patients taking low dose
             coumadin (e.g., as prophylaxis for a venous access device) and INR of up to 1.5 is
             allowed
      
