TITLE:
Evaluate the Effects of GPI 1485 on Erectile Function Following Bilateral Nerve-Sparing Prostatectomy

CONDITION:
Impotence

INTERVENTION:
GPI 1485

SUMMARY:

      In this phase II study, an investigative (not approved by the FDA) drug called GPI 1485 is
      being assessed to see if it can help preserve erectile function after prostatectomy.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This drug has been tested in animals, and was shown to protect nerves from damage and to
      regrow damaged nerves in these animal studies. Participants will receive either GPI 1485 or
      a placebo (inactive pill). Participants will begin study medication 3 full days prior to
      their scheduled surgery.

      GPI 1485 will be supplied as an oral tablet formulation to men who are candidates for
      bilateral nerve-sparing prostatectomies. Participants randomly assigned to receive GPI 1485
      will be required to take four tablets four times a day by mouth.

      GPI 1485 matching placebo will also be supplied as an oral tablet formulation. Participants
      randomly assigned to placebo will be required to take 4 placebo tablets four times a day by
      mouth.

      Viagra will be supplied as oral tablets beginning 1 month post-surgery. Patients can begin
      Viagra 1 month post-surgery and may continue use until the end of the study, as needed.

      The duration of this study is 12 months which includes 5 office visits to your doctor in
      addition to the surgery day. During this study you will also have other clinical evaluations
      including a physical exam, blood work, ECG (tracing of your heart rhythm) and urinalysis.

      Participants enrolled in this study will also carry a handheld diary that is loaded with
      special protocol-specific software, which will be referred to as the patient experience
      diary (PED). Over the duration of this study, participants will complete their
      questionnaires and answer questions about their medication compliance in the electronic PED.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 40 Years to 69 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Clinical diagnosis of localized prostate carcinoma and scheduled to undergo curative
             surgical resection via bilateral nerve sparing procedure.

          2. Localized prostate cancer is defined as:

               -  Gleason score <=7 (<=3 + <=4)

               -  PSA <=10 off of finasteride (Proscar) and dutasteride (Avodart)

               -  <=T2a stage disease

          3. Motivated males, 40 to 69 years of age inclusive, and in the opinion of the
             investigator, are currently in a monogamous, sexually active relationship.

          4. Males that have erectile function (EF) (without the use of pharmacotherapy within 30
             days prior to screening assessment).

          5. EF is defined as a score of >=26 on the EF domain of the IIEF questionnaire based on
             patient experiences over the 4 weeks prior to biopsy.

          6. Body Mass Index (BMI) within the 18-34.9 kg/m2 range.

          7. Able to swallow whole tablets equivalent to capsule size 0.

          8. Available for protocol-specified visits and procedures.

          9. Informed written consent must be provided prior to any study-specific procedures.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Recent history, within 6 months before screening, of drug or alcohol abuse.

          2. History of peripheral neuropathy.

          3. History of acute or chronic depression that in the opinion of the investigator may
             interfere with protocol-specified efficacy measurements.

          4. History of diabetes that requires use of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents,
             myocardial infarction, or cerebrovascular accident.

          5. History of spinal trauma or surgery to the brain or spinal cord.

          6. Any medical disability or laboratory abnormality (e.g., serum creatinine > 2.0 mg/dL)
             that, in the opinion of the Investigator, may interfere with the protocol-specified
             safety and efficacy measurements, present an unacceptable risk to the patient's
             well-being, or compromise the patient's ability to provide informed consent.

          7. History of pelvic radiation therapy (external beam radiation or brachytherapy).

          8. Concomitant use of hormonal therapy, vasodilators (nitrates), dutasteride (Avodart)
             or finasteride (Proscar) within the 30 days prior to biopsy and throughout the
             study.

          9. Concomitant use of therapeutic agents to treat ED other than those specified in the
             protocol is not permitted starting at least 30 days prior to biopsy and continuing
             throughout the study.

         10. Previous exposure to GPI 1485 (previously AMG-474-00).

         11. Treatment with an investigational agent within the 30 days before screening or
             scheduled to receive an investigational agent other than that specified by this
             protocol during the course of this study.

         12. Any contraindication to Viagra use

         13. Unable to stop the use of inducers or inhibitors of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 from
             Baseline until the end of the study.
      
