TITLE:
Erlotinib in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Stomach Cancer or Gastroesophageal Junction Cancer

CONDITION:
Esophageal Cancer

INTERVENTION:
erlotinib hydrochloride

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Biological therapies such as erlotinib may interfere with the growth of tumor
      cells and slow the growth of the tumor.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of erlotinib in treating patients who
      have locally advanced or metastatic stomach cancer or cancer of the gastroesophageal
      junction.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the overall response rate of patients with locally advanced or metastatic
           adenocarcinoma of the stomach or gastroesophageal junction treated with erlotinib.
           (Gastric stratum temporarily closed to accrual as of 03/01/2003.)

        -  Determine the frequency and severity of toxic effects of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the overall survival and time to treatment failure in patients treated with
           this drug.

        -  Determine the value of intratumoral expression of epidermal growth factor receptor in
           predicting patient response to this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to cancer site
      (stomach vs gastroesophageal junction). (The gastric stratum is temporarily closed to
      accrual as of 03-01-2003.)

      Patients receive oral erlotinib once daily. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40-80 patients (20-40 per stratum) will be accrued for this
      study within 14-40 months. (The gastric stratum is temporarily closed to accrual as of
      03-01-2003.)
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the stomach* or
             gastroesophageal (GE) junction

               -  GE junction tumors include esophageal tumors arising 5 cm from the anatomic GE
                  junction or in the gastric cardia

               -  Locally advanced (i.e., unresectable) or metastatic disease NOTE: *Gastric
                  stratum temporarily closed to accrual as of 03/01/2003

          -  Unidimensionally measurable disease

               -  Target lesion must not be in previously irradiated field unless there is
                  documentation of clear progression

          -  No known brain metastases

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  Not specified

        Performance status:

          -  Zubrod 0-1

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic:

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  SGOT or SGPT no greater than 1.5 times ULN (5 times ULN if liver metastases present)

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2 times ULN

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No recent myocardial infarction

          -  No unstable angina

          -  No life-threatening arrhythmia

        Gastrointestinal:

          -  No gastrointestinal tract disease resulting in an inability to take oral medication
             or a requirement for IV alimentation

          -  No active peptic ulcer disease

          -  Must be able to swallow and/or receive enteral medications via gastrostomy feeding
             tube

          -  No intractable nausea or vomiting

        Ophthalmic:

          -  No history of corneal disease, including:

               -  Dry eye syndrome or Sjgren's syndrome

               -  Keratoconjunctivitis sicca

               -  Exposure keratopathy

               -  Fuch's dystrophy

               -  Other active disorders of the cornea

        Other:

          -  HIV negative

          -  No active or uncontrolled infection

          -  No other malignancy within the past 5 years except adequately treated basal cell or
             squamous cell skin cancer, carcinoma in situ of the cervix, or adequately treated
             stage I or II cancer currently in complete remission

          -  No severe psychiatric disorders

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  No prior biologic therapy

          -  No concurrent anticancer immunotherapy

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior chemotherapy for advanced or metastatic gastric cancer

          -  At least 8 weeks since prior adjuvant chemotherapy or chemotherapy given as a
             radiosensitizer and recovered

          -  No concurrent anticancer chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  No concurrent anticancer hormonal therapy

        Radiotherapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy and recovered

          -  No concurrent anticancer radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior surgical procedure for stomach* or GE cancer and
             recovered

          -  No prior surgical procedures that would affect absorption NOTE: *Gastric stratum
             temporarily closed to accrual as of 03/01/2003

        Other:

          -  No prior investigational drugs

          -  No concurrent combination antiretroviral therapy for HIV-positive patients

          -  No other concurrent anticancer therapy
      
