TITLE:
Motivational Interviewing to Improve Treatment Engagement and Outcome in Subjects Seeking Treatment for Substance Abuse - 1

CONDITION:
Substance-Related Disorders

INTERVENTION:
Behavior Therapy

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to assess Motivational Interviewing (MI) to improve treatment
      engagement and outcome in subjects seeking treatment for substance abuse.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Participants seeking treatment at the participating CTPs will be randomly assigned to either
      "standard" or "MET/MI" treatment, with a 1- and 3-month follow-up. Primary outcome measures
      will include (1) treatment retention (e.g., number of sessions/weeks completed, the rate of
      patients completing 3 or more subsequent sessions, and (2) substance use (e.g., urinalyses,
      days of opioid, cocaine, marijuana, alcohol use, rates of abstinence). Secondary outcomes
      will include motivation, psychosocial functioning, HIV risk behaviors, treatment
      utilization, and patient satisfaction. Process assessments will include measures of the
      working alliance as well as therapist adherence/competence ratings which will evaluate how
      effectively MET/MI was implemented. Participating CTPs will implement one of two independent
      protocols, depending on which is the best suited or feasible for the intake procedures at
      their clinic. Thus, following an invitation to participate, explanation of the study, and
      provision of informed consent, patients would complete a brief assessment battery followed
      by either:1) Random assignment to 3 individual sessions of standard treatment (treatment as
      usual) at the program versus 3 individual sessions of MET; or 2) Random assignment to 1
      individual standard assessment/evaluation session.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

        Individuals will be eligible for the protocol who: a)Are seeking outpatient treatment for
        any substance use disorder. b)Are 18 years of age or older. c)Are willing to participate
        in the protocol (e.g., to be randomized to treatment, be contacted for follow-up
        assessment, to have their sessions audiotaped). d)Are able to understand and provide
        written informed consent.

        Exclusion Criteria:

        Individuals will be excluded who: a)Are not sufficiently medically or psychiatrically
        stable to participate in outpatient treatment. b)Are seeking detoxification only,
        methadone maintenance, or residential inpatient treatment.
      
