TITLE:
Interleukin-2 and Bryostatin 1 in Treating Patients With Advanced Kidney Cancer

CONDITION:
Recurrent Renal Cell Cancer

INTERVENTION:
aldesleukin

SUMMARY:

      Interleukin-2 may stimulate a person's white blood cells to kill tumor cells. Drugs used in
      chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or
      die. Combining bryostatin 1 with interleukin-2 may cause a stronger immune response and kill
      more tumor cells. Randomized phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining
      interleukin-2 and bryostatin 1 in treating patients who have advanced kidney cancer
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the objective response rate in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma
      treated with interleukin-2 (IL-2) and bryostatin 1.

      II. Compare the toxicity of 3 different doses of bryostatin 1 given in combination with a
      fixed dose of IL-2 in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to one of three
      dose levels of bryostatin 1.

      ARM I: Patients receive interleukin-2 (IL-2) subcutaneously on days 1-4, 8-11, and 15-18.
      For the second and subsequent courses of IL-2, patients also receive lowest dose bryostatin
      1 IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for at least 3
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive IL-2 as in arm I and middle dose bryostatin 1 IV over 1 hour on
      days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for at least 3 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: Patients receive IL-2 as in arm I and highest dose bryostatin 1 IV over 1 hour on
      days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for at least 3 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with stable or responding disease may receive 3 additional courses of therapy. An
      additional cohort of patients receives treatment as above at a higher dose to evaluate
      toxicity.

      Patients are followed for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 24-65 patients (8-16 per bryostatin 1 dose level) will be
      accrued for this study within 14-27 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed renal cell carcinoma

               -  Recurrent or refractory advanced disease

               -  Newly diagnosed disease with no appropriate standard therapy available

          -  Measurable disease

          -  No active CNS metastases

               -  Single prior CNS metastasis allowed if all of the following are true:

                    -  Previously resected and irradiated

                    -  No evidence of progressive CNS disease for at least 8 weeks after
                       completion of therapy

                    -  No requirement for steroids or anti-seizure medications

          -  Performance status - ECOG 0-2

          -  More than 3 months

          -  WBC at least 3,000/mm^3

          -  Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  AST/ALT no greater than 2.5 times ULN

          -  Creatinine no greater than 2.0 mg/dL

          -  No symptomatic congestive heart failure

          -  No unstable angina pectoris

          -  No cardiac arrhythmia

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective barrier contraception during and for at least 2
             weeks after study for female patients and for 3 months after study for male patients

          -  No concurrent uncontrolled illness

          -  No ongoing or active infection

          -  No psychiatric illness or social situation that would preclude study entry

          -  No prior interleukin-2

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  Prior radiotherapy to less than 50% of bone marrow allowed

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No other concurrent investigational agents

          -  No concurrent combination antiretroviral therapy for HIV-positive patients
      
