TITLE:
Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopic Imaging in Diagnosing the Extent of Disease in Patients With Prostate Cancer

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
magnetic resonance imaging

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Imaging procedures such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic
      resonance spectroscopic imaging (MRSI) may improve the ability to detect the extent of
      prostate cancer. It is not yet known if MRI combined with MRSI is more effective than MRI
      alone in detecting the extent of prostate cancer.

      PURPOSE: Diagnostic trial to compare the effectiveness of combining MRI with MRSI to that of
      MRI alone in determining the extent of prostate cancer in patients who are scheduled to
      undergo surgery to remove the prostate gland.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the accuracy of MRI vs MRI combined with magnetic resonance spectroscopic
           imaging (MRSI) for the localization of prostate cancer prior to radical prostatectomy
           in patients with stage I or II adenocarcinoma of the prostate.

        -  Compare the incremental benefit of these tests on diagnostic accuracy in these
           patients.

        -  Compare the incremental benefit of MRSI for interobserver agreement vs MRI alone in the
           localization of prostate cancer in these patients.

        -  Compare the accuracy of combined MRSI with that of other available information on tumor
           extent derived from digital rectal exam, PSA level, Gleason score, and Partin nomogram
           in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      At least 6 weeks after biopsy, patients undergo MRI and magnetic resonance spectroscopic
      imaging (MRSI) over approximately 1 hour. Within 6 months of MRI/MRSI, patients undergo
      radical prostatectomy.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 134 patients will be accrued for this study within 7 months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed stage I-II adenocarcinoma of the prostate

               -  At least 6 weeks since prior biopsy

          -  Scheduled to undergo radical prostatectomy within 6 months of MRI and magnetic
             resonance spectroscopic imaging (MRSI)

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No cardiac pacemakers

        Other:

          -  Must be willing and able to undergo MRI/MRSI

          -  No allergy to latex

          -  No contraindications to MRI such as non-compatible intracranial vascular clips

          -  No metallic hip implant or any other metallic implant or device that would compromise
             quality of MRI/MRSI

          -  No contraindications to or intolerance of endorectal coil insertion (e.g., prior
             abdominoperineal resection of the rectum or Crohn's disease)

          -  No general medical or psychiatric condition or physiologic status unrelated to
             prostate cancer that would preclude valid informed consent

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  No prior BCG for bladder cancer

        Chemotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  No prior androgen-deprivation therapy

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No prior prostatic or rectal radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No prior cryosurgery

          -  No prior surgery for prostate cancer

          -  No prior transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP)

          -  No prior rectal surgery

        Other:

          -  No prior complementary alternative medicine
      
