TITLE:
Combination Chemotherapy Plus Filgrastim in Treating Patients With HIV-Related Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma

CONDITION:
Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
bleomycin sulfate

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more cancer cells.
      Colony-stimulating factors such as filgrastim may increase the number of immune cells found
      in bone marrow or peripheral blood and may help a person's immune system recover from the
      side effects of chemotherapy.

      PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of combining filgrastim with
      combination chemotherapy in treating patients who have HIV-related non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the toxicity of mitoxantrone, cyclophosphamide, etoposide, vincristine,
           bleomycin, prednisolone, and filgrastim (G-CSF) in patients with good-prognosis
           (defined by the study as having 1 adverse prognostic factor) HIV-related non-Hodgkin's
           lymphoma.

        -  Determine the effects of this regimen on response rate, time to disease progression,
           and survival in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive mitoxantrone IV, cyclophosphamide IV, and etoposide IV on day 1; and
      vincristine IV and bleomycin IV on day 8. Patients also receive prednisolone daily on weeks
      1-4 and then every other day on weeks 5-16. Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF)
      subcutaneously on days 6-12. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 8 courses (16 weeks)
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with complete
      response (CR) or partial response (PR) receive 4 courses beyond CR or PR.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 5 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15-30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed previously untreated HIV-related non-Hodgkin's lymphoma with
             1 of the following:

               -  Prior diagnosis of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS)

               -  CD4 count < 100,000/mm3

               -  ECOG performance status > 2

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  18 and over

        Performance status:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Life expectancy:

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine:

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy:

          -  Not specified

        Surgery:

          -  Not specified
      
