TITLE:
Gemcitabine and Capecitabine in Treating Patients With Advanced and/or Inoperable Cholangiocarcinoma or Carcinoma of the Gallbladder

CONDITION:
Extrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer

INTERVENTION:
capecitabine

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine and capecitabine, work in
      different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more
      than one chemotherapy drug may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining gemcitabine with
      capecitabine in treating patients who have advanced and/or inoperable cholangiocarcinoma or
      carcinoma (cancer) of the gallbladder.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the response rate in patients with advanced and/or inoperable
           cholangiocarcinoma or carcinoma of the gallbladder treated with gemcitabine and
           capecitabine.

      Secondary

        -  Determine time to disease progression and overall survival of patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine quality of life of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label study.

      Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and oral capecitabine twice
      daily on days 1-14. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and at weeks 3, 6, 9, and 12.

      Patients are followed monthly.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 9-17 patients will be accrued for this study within 1.5 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed cholangiocarcinoma or carcinoma of the
             gallbladder

               -  Advanced and/or inoperable disease

          -  Measurable disease

               -  At least 1 unidimensionally measurable lesion  20 mm by conventional techniques
                  OR  10 mm by spiral CT scan

          -  No known brain metastases

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Performance status

          -  ECOG 0-2 OR

          -  Karnofsky 60-100%

        Life expectancy

          -  More than 2 months

        Hematopoietic

          -  WBC  3,000/mm^3

          -  Absolute neutrophil count  1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count  100,000/mm^3

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin < 3 mg/dL

        Renal

          -  Creatinine  1.6 mg/dL

        Cardiovascular

          -  No symptomatic congestive heart failure

          -  No unstable angina pectoris

          -  No cardiac arrhythmia

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

          -  No prior allergic reaction attributed to compounds of similar chemical or biological
             composition to study drugs

          -  No ongoing or active infection

          -  No psychiatric illness or social situation that would preclude study compliance

          -  No other concurrent uncontrolled illness

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  More than 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy and recovered

          -  No more than 1 prior chemoembolization OR chemoradiotherapy regimen for locally
             advanced biliary tract cancer

          -  No other prior chemotherapy (except adjuvant therapy)

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  See Chemotherapy

          -  More than 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy and recovered

        Surgery

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  No other concurrent investigational agents

          -  No other concurrent anticancer agents or therapies
      
