TITLE:
Adjuvant Hypofractionated Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy With Incorporated Boost in Treating Patients With Early-Stage Breast Cancer

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
Radiation therapy

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Hypofractionated
      (fewer treatments than in standard radiation therapy) intensity-modulated radiation therapy
      (radiation directed at the tumor more precisely than in standard radiation therapy) with
      incorporated boost (an increase in the amount of radiation given during treatment) may kill
      more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well adjuvant hypofractionated
      intensity-modulated radiation therapy with incorporated boost works in treating patients
      with early-stage breast cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the toxicity associated with adjuvant hypofractionated intensity-modulated
           radiotherapy using an incorporated boost in patients with early-stage breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the long-term cosmetic result and quality of life of patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the long-term local control in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: Patients undergo adjuvant hypofractionated intensity-modulated radiotherapy with
      incorporated boost once daily 5 days a week for 4 weeks.

      Quality of life is assessed within 1 month of starting radiotherapy, at 6 weeks after
      completion of radiotherapy, and then every 6 months for 5 years.

      Patients are followed at 6 weeks and then every six months for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 37-74 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed carcinoma of the breast

               -  Invasive or in-situ disease

               -  Stage Tis, T1, or T2 (AJCC stage 0, I, or II) disease

          -  Treated with breast-conserving surgery within the past 8 weeks

          -  Hormone receptor status:

               -  Not specified

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Sex

          -  Not specified

        Menopausal status

          -  Not specified

        Performance status

          -  ECOG 0-2

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Absolute neutrophil count  1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count  75,000/mm^3

        Hepatic

          -  Not specified

        Renal

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  No other malignancy within the past 2 years except inactive, non-invasive carcinoma
             of the cervix or non-melanoma skin cancer

          -  No active systemic lupus

          -  No history of scleroderma

          -  No other medical or psychiatric condition that would preclude study participation

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  No more than 6 weeks since prior adjuvant systemic chemotherapy

          -  No concurrent chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  No prior radiotherapy to the breast

        Surgery

          -  See Disease Characteristics
      
