TITLE:
Computed Tomography (CT) Scans Using CT-On-Rails to Pinpoint the Location of the Tumor in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
computed tomography

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: New imaging procedures such as CT-on-rails may improve the ability to pinpoint
      the location of the tumor and decrease radiation therapy damage to healthy tissue.

      PURPOSE: This phase I/II trial is studying how well computed tomography (CT) scans using
      CT-on-rails work in pinpointing the location of the tumor in patients with prostate cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Validate the software for CT-on-rails by comparing prostate target localization via
           daily ultrasound vs computed tomography (CT) in patients undergoing radiotherapy for
           prostate cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the potential benefit of using fiducials in the prostate of patients
           undergoing daily CT scans and/or ultrasounds for localization.

        -  Determine the intra- and inter-radiation treatment setup and target position
           uncertainties, in terms of isocenter coordinates in space, using both the ultrasound
           and CT scans compared to the coordinates of the isocenter determined at simulation, in
           these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

        -  Phase I: Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) using CT-on-rails twice weekly.
           Patients undergo BAT ultrasound daily for prostate localization. Patients undergo
           concurrent daily radiotherapy off study after imaging. After radiotherapy treatment is
           complete, patients continue to undergo scanning using CT-on-rails twice weekly.

        -  Phase II: Patients undergo local anesthesia and surgical insertion of gold fiducial
           markers into the prostate. After 1 week, patients undergo a daily CT scan using
           CT-on-rails and bi-weekly BAT ultrasound. Patients undergo daily radiotherapy off
           study after imaging. After radiotherapy treatment is complete, patients continue to
           undergo scanning using CT-on-rails twice weekly.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients (20 per study phase) will be accrued for this
      study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of definitive prostate cancer

          -  Radiotherapy planned as treatment

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  Any age

        Performance status

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic

          -  Not specified

        Renal

          -  Not specified

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Surgery

          -  Not specified
      
