TITLE:
Umbilical Cord Blood for Stem Cell Transplantation in Treating Young Patients With Malignant or Nonmalignant Diseases

CONDITION:
Childhood Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis

INTERVENTION:
anti-thymocyte globulin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Umbilical cord blood transplantation may be able to replace immune cells that
      were destroyed by chemotherapy or radiation therapy.

      PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well umbilical cord blood works as a source of
      stem cells in treating patients with types of cancer as well as other diseases.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the impact of the use of umbilical cord blood as a source of hematopoietic
           stem cells for children with life-threatening oncologic, hematologic, or
           genetic/metabolic disorders in need of a stem cell transplant.

        -  Compare the incidence of graft-versus-host disease in patients receiving cord blood
           transplants in this study with historical data for unrelated donor stem cell
           transplants.

        -  Compare the incidence of engraftment in patients receiving cord blood transplants in
           this study with historical data for unrelated donor stem cell transplants.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Preparative therapy: Patients are treated on 1 of 4 preparative therapy regimens.

             -  Regimen A: Patients undergo total body irradiation (TBI) two times daily on days
                -7 to -4. Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on days -3 and
                -2 and anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) IV over at least 6 hours on days -3 to -1.

             -  Regimen B (patients who do not receive TBI): Patients receive oral busulfan 4
                times daily on days -8 to -5, and ATG IV over at least 6 hours and melphalan IV
                over 15-20 minutes on days -4 to -2.

             -  Regimen C (patients with Fanconi's anemia and related disorders): Patients undergo
                TBI on day -6. Patients receive ATG IV over at least 6 hours and
                methylprednisolone IV on days -5 to -1 and fludarabine IV over 30 minutes and
                cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on days -5 to -2.

             -  Regimen D: Patients receive oral or IV busulfan 4 times daily on days -9 to -5,
                ATG IV over at least 6 hours on days -5 to -3, and cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60
                minutes on days -5 to -2.

        -  Cord blood transplant: All patients undergo umbilical cord blood transplantation on day
           0.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis: Patients receive oral or IV cyclosporine twice
           daily beginning on day -1. Patients also receive methylprednisolone IV twice daily
           beginning on day 5 and continuing until at least day 28.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 25 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 21 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Diagnosis of malignant or non-malignant disease, including but not limited to any of
             the following:

               -  Acute myeloid leukemia or acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with resistant
                  disease beyond first clinical remission (CR)

               -  ALL in first CR at high-risk because of 1 of the following factors:

                    -  Hypoploidy

                    -  Pseudodiploidy with translocations t(9;22), t(4;11), or t(8;14)

                    -  Elevated WBC at diagnosis as follows:

                         -  > 100,000/mm^3 for patients 6-12 months of age

                         -  > 50,000/mm^3 for patients 10-20 years of age

                         -  > 20,000/mm^3 for patients 21 years of age

                    -  Burkitt's lymphoma/leukemia

               -  Chronic myelogenous leukemia in first chronic phase or beyond

               -  Juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia

               -  Advanced stage or relapsed lymphoma

               -  Advanced stage or relapsed solid tumors, including any of the following:

                    -  Neuroblastoma

                    -  Ewing's sarcoma

                    -  Rhabdomyosarcoma

               -  Myelodysplastic syndromes, excluding patients with grade 3 or 4 myelofibrosis

               -  Familial erythrophagocytic histiocytosis

               -  Histiocytosis unresponsive to medical management

               -  Inborn errors of metabolism

               -  Langerhans cell histiocytosis unresponsive to medical management

               -  Immune deficiencies, including:

                    -  Severe combined immune deficiency

                    -  Wiskott-Aldrich

               -  Hemoglobinopathies, including sickle cell disease and thalassemia

               -  Severe aplastic anemia

               -  Fanconi's anemia

               -  Metabolic storage diseases

          -  Unrelated cord blood donor must be HLA-identical OR may be mismatched for 1, 2, or 3
             HLA-loci (A, B, DR)

          -  No other existing HLA-identical related donor available at the time of
             transplantation

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  21 and under

        Performance status

          -  Not specified

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  See Disease Characteristics

        Hepatic

          -  Not specified

        Renal

          -  Not specified

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Not specified

        Radiotherapy

          -  Not specified

        Surgery

          -  Not specified
      
