TITLE:
Written Self-disclosure for Youth Abdominal Pain

CONDITION:
Abdominal Pain

INTERVENTION:
Written self-disclosure

SUMMARY:

      The aims are to evaluate: (1) the effectiveness of written self-disclosure (WSD) on health
      status of youth ages 12-18 with functional recurrent abdominal pain (RAP); (2) whether
      effectiveness of WSD is similar for younger (12-14) and older (15-18) youth with functional
      RAP; and (3) the feasibility and acceptability of WSD when extended to the pediatric health
      care setting.We will implement a randomized, controlled trial (RCT) designed to compare
      health status in 140 youths (ages 12-18) with functional RAP assigned either to standard
      medical care (SMC) or WSD provided in the health care setting in addition to SMC. Health
      status will be measured at Baseline and 3- and 6-months thereafter. Primary measures of
      health status are symptom severity and episode frequency, consistent with the definition of
      RAP. Secondary measures of health are functional health, psychological distress,
      health-related quality of life, and health care utilization. Total use and diagnostic tests
      will index health care utilization, collected for the 6-mos prior to and following Baseline.
      Mixed model ANOVA or MANOVA will be used to test directional hypotheses corresponding to the
      specific aims.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 12 Years to 18 Years
Criteria:

        -  Ages 12-18.

          -  Diagnosis of RAP by the examining pediatric gastroenterologist using Apley's (1975)
             criteria: (a) 3 episodes of abdominal pain, (b) severe enough to interrupt activities
             and occurring, (c) over a period of at least 3 months, (d) without an identifiable
             organic cause (If an organic cause is identified during participation in protocol,
             then participant is withdrawn from database prior to analysis).

          -  Free of a known chronic health condition.

          -  Physical and mental ability to complete the procedures, as judged by Dr. Madan-Swain.

          -  Consents to complete the protocol over the next 6 months.

          -  Parent(s) consents to participate and agrees to support the youth in completing the
             protocol.

          -  Access to a phone on the days writing sessions are to be completed at home.
      
