TITLE:
Vitamin K and Bone Turnover in Postmenopausal Women

CONDITION:
Osteoporosis

INTERVENTION:
phylloquinone (K1)

SUMMARY:

      This one year study of the K vitamers phylloquinone (K1) and menatetranone (MK4) will study
      supplementation effects on bone turnover and bone density. Women at least 5 years
      postmenopause with normal bone density who do not use estrogen therapy or the following
      medications may be eligible:

      alendronate (Fosamax), risedronate (Actonel), pamidronate (Aredia), etidronate (Didronel),
      zoledronate (Zometa), teriparatide (Forteo), raloxifene (Evista), tamoxifene, warfarin
      (Coumadin), anti-seizure medications, prednisone, or oral steroids. Eligible subjects will
      take calcium and vitamin D (Citracal) twice a day for the first two months and through-out
      the study. After the first two months, subjects are randomized to the K1, MK4 or placebo
      groups. Return visits occur at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months. Fasting blood and urine is collected
      at each visit and bone density is performed at 3 study visits.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        -  Female, 5 years postmenopause.

          -  Ambulatory.

          -  Community dwelling.

          -  Able to ingest calcium and vitamin D supplements.

          -  Willing to restrict vitamin K intake.

          -  Stable thyroid dose if appropriate.

          -  No history of hyperthyroidism, hyperparathyroidism or other metabolic bone diseases.

          -  Absence of hardware in hip and spine.

          -  History of malignancy within the last five years.

          -  Not currently using coumadin or warfarin.

          -  Vitamin D supplements must be less than 800 IU daily.

          -  Have not used estrogen or other bone-altering medications (see list in study
             description) within the last year.

          -  No history of liver disease or malabsorption.

          -  No known allergy to vitamin K.

          -  Have not participated in an investigational drug trial within the last month.
      
