TITLE:
Effect of Niacin ER/Lovastatin on Peak Walking Time & Claudication Onset Time in Patients With Intermittent Claudication

CONDITION:
Intermittent Claudication

INTERVENTION:
Niacin Extended Release and Lovastatin Tablets

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate if Niacin ER/Lovastatin, at two different doses,
      compared to diet control (this group will receive a tablet containing 50 mg. of
      immediate-release niacin) is a safe and effective medicine in subjects with leg pain caused
      by a narrowing of their leg arteries, a condition called intermittent claudication.

      At least 366 subjects with leg pain caused by a narrowing of their leg arteries will
      participate in this study.

      Niacin ER/Lovastatin is a combination of two FDA (United States Food and Drug
      Administration) approved cholesterol modifying medications: Niaspan (extended-release
      niacin) and lovastatin, a statin (the same medicine found in Mevacor). Niacin ER/Lovastatin
      was approved by the FDA under the name of Advicor for use in the treatment of elevated
      cholesterol. The use of Niacin ER/Lovastatin in the treatment of peripheral arterial disease
      and symptomatic relief of intermittent claudication is considered investigational. An
      investigational use is one that is not approved by the FDA.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This is a Phase 3, 28-week, double-blind, diet-intervention, randomized, parallel group,
      three-arm, multi-center, dose-titration study.

      The objectives of this study are to evaluate the safety and efficacy of NL in patients with
      IC. The primary efficacy analysis will be the percent change from baseline in Peak Walking
      Time (PWT) and Claudication Onset Time (COT), calculated as the logarithm of the quotient of
      the time walked on treadmill at a visit divided by the time walked at baseline. Other
      efficacy measures will include Ankle Brachial Index (ABI), QoL measurements, composite of
      cardiovascular events (MI, stroke, vascular death, and lower limb amputations), and coronary
      and peripheral artery revascularization procedures. Safety variables will include serum
      transaminases, routine chemistry parameters, hematology, and AEs. Pharmacokinetic analyses
      will be conducted as well.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 40 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION CRITERIA:

          -  Men & women at least 40 years of age or older. Women must not be pregnant nor
             breast-feeding & not planning to become pregnant or to breast-feed.

          -  History of IC of the lower extremities which has been present for at least 6 months
             with no change in symptoms in the previous 3 months prior to screening.

          -  LDL-C of < 160 mg/dL and Triglycerides < 800mg/dL.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

          -  Severe neuropathy

          -  Gross obesity (BMI  40)

          -  Presence of critical limb ischemia defined as ischemic rest pain, gangrene,
             ulceration, or pending amputation of a lower extremity due to severe PAD.

          -  Surgical intervention to alleviate symptoms of claudication within 6 months or
             endovascular interventions within 3 months

          -  Documented CAD taking any cholesterol-modifying agent

          -  Systolic blood pressure  160 mmHg &/or diastolic blood pressure  95 mmHg

          -  Presence of clinically significant laboratory test abnormalities for liver or renal
             function tests or HgbA1C.

          -  History of alcohol abuse or currently drinks alcohol in excess.
      
