TITLE:
The Framingham Study: Examining DNA Markers and Links to Diseases

CONDITION:
Vascular Diseases

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      Since 1948, residents of Framingham, Massachusetts, have participated in a program that
      collects blood samples and clinical data to provide a rare and valuable database for
      scientific research.

      The purpose of this study is to support this national resource by aiding in its research
      capacity. Specifically, researchers in this study will (1) investigate heart, lung, and
      blood diseases; stroke; memory loss; joint disease; bone loss; deafness; cancer; blood
      vessel diseases and other health conditions, and (2) examine DNA and its relationship to
      risk of developing these disease and health conditions.

      Approximately 330 families have participated in the Framingham Study. Participants will be
      required to undergo a four-hour exam and to take that exam every two years thereafter.
      During the exam, the Framingham investigators will (1) interview participants about medical
      status, health issues, and lifestyles; (2) perform a regular physical exam; (3) obtain blood
      and urine samples and administer a glucose-tolerance test; (4) supervise a brisk six-minute
      treadmill walk; (5) administer an ultrasound procedure; and (6) review and obtain copies of
      medical and hospital records. Participants will also be asked to complete a questionnaire at
      home regarding dietary and health habits.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Many studies have shown that hematocrit (HCT) levels are associated with cerebrovascular
      disease, cardiovascular disease (CVD), peripheral vascular disease, as well as all-cause
      mortality. Twin studies have shown that HCT variation is largely determined by genetic
      factors with heritability estimated as 40% - 65%. So far, no linkage analysis in humans
      between HCT and DNA markers have been reported. The purpose of this protocol is to identify
      chromosome regions that contain quantitative trait loci (QTL) involved in controlling HCT
      levels. In the Framingham Study, a 10cM genome scan (about 400 markers) has been conducted
      in 330 families. HCT was measured in the original cohort and Framingham offspring. These
      data provide us the opportunity to undertake linkage analyses using variance component
      method to map quantitative trait loci (QTL) of HCT.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        -  INCLUSION /EXCLUSION CRITERIA

        The study population will include the members of the 330 Framingham Study families with
        genome scan.
      
