TITLE:
Walking Therapy In Hemiparetic Stroke Patients Using Robotic-Assisted Treadmill Training

CONDITION:
Hemiparesis

INTERVENTION:
Lokomat (Robotic Orthosis) combined with slat belt treadmill

SUMMARY:

      The overall goal of this study is to determine whether robotic-assisted gait training is
      better than standard physical therapy treatments for improving walking ability in
      hemiparetic stroke patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Subjects enrolled into the study will be randomly assigned to one of 2 groups. The first
      group will receive one hour of conventional gait training, consisting of lower extremity
      strengthening exercises, stretching, and full weight bearing walking as tolerated, with
      appropriate physical assistance from a therapist. The second group will receive walking
      therapy using a Lokomat, which is a special treadmill that works in conjunction with 2
      light-weight robotic arms that assists the subject to move their legs while they try to walk
      on the treadmill. Some of the subjects body-weight will be supported using a harness.
      During Lokomat training sessions, subjects will receive feedback of their walking
      performance on a computer monitor to help them walk. Both groups will be trained for 8-10
      weeks, 3 times per week, for 1 hour training sessions (24 total sessions). Resources for
      transportation to the National Rehabilitation Hospital will be provided to all study
      participants.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion:

          -  Unilateral brain lesion.

          -  Within 6 months post-stroke.

          -  Receiving no other therapy targeting function of lower limb.

          -  Demonstration of hemiparesis (motor dysfunction in lower limb).

          -  Able to walk 5 meters without therapist assistance (walking device only).

          -  Able to follow commands and protocol.

        Exclusion:

          -  Significant cognitive or communication impairments.

          -  Uncontrolled hypertension.

          -  Uncontrolled diabetes.

          -  Clinical depression.
      
