TITLE:
Initial Safety Assessment of SNS-595 for the Treatment of Solid Tumors.

CONDITION:
Neoplasms

INTERVENTION:
SNS-595

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether SNS-595 given intravenously once every 3
      weeks is safe.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Other objectives of this study include measuring pharmacokinetics (how long the drug can be
      measured in the blood) and determining the dose and dose schedule for the next phase of
      studies with SNS-595.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Must give written informed consent

          -  18 years of age

          -  Advanced solid malignant tumors

          -  Tumor can be measured and evaluated

          -  Blood tests are within standard limits

          -  Normal blood coagulation

          -  ECOG Performance Status equal to 0 or 1

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnant or breastfeeding.

          -  Women of childbearing potential unwilling to use an approved, effective means of
             contraception according to the institutions standards.

          -  Heart attack, stroke/TIA or other blood clotting event (deep vein thrombosis or
             pulmonary embolus) within 6 months before the screen visit.

          -  Requires kidney dialysis (hemodialysis or peritoneal).

          -  Known bleeding disorder (ie, hemophilia, von Willebrand Disease, coagulopathy, etc.).

          -  Received an investigational agent or prior chemotherapy or immunotherapy within 28
             days before first dose of SNS-595

          -  Receiving therapeutic anticoagulation therapy (coumadin, heparin, etc.).

          -  Currently receiving corticosteroids (inhaled steroids for breathing diseases are
             allowed) or seizure medications.

          -  Any medical, psychological, or social condition that, in the opinion of the Principal
             Investigator, would contraindicate the patient's participation in the clinical trial
             due to safety and or compliance with study procedures.
      
