TITLE:
IMMEDIATE Trial - Out of Hospital Administration of Glucose, Insulin and Potassium.

CONDITION:
Angina, Unstable

INTERVENTION:
GIK

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to test the impact of pharmacological myocardial metabolic
      support, in the form of intravenous (IV) glucose, insulin and potassium (GIK), for the
      treatment of patients with threatened or established acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      BACKGROUND:

      Basic and clinical research suggests intravenous GIK metabolic myocardial support reduces
      ischemia-induced arrhythmias, progression from unstable angina pectoris (UAP) to acute
      myocardial infarction (AMI), myocardial infarction (MI) size, and mortality. Also, for ST
      elevation MI (STEMI), GIK may prolong time of benefit of coronary reperfusion. These effects
      should reduce short- and long-term mortality from ACS, including AMI and UAP, and the
      propensity for heart failure (HF). These benefits are related to the earliness of ACS, when
      both risk and opportunity to save lives are highest.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded, multicenter clinical trial of
      IMMEDIATE GIK as early as possible in ACS in the prehospital emergency medical service (EMS)
      setting. Distinct from prior and ongoing GIK trials, this will test GIK for all ACS rather
      than only for AMI or STEMI in prehospital EMS. The primary hypothesis is that early GIK will
      prevent or reduce the size of acute myocardial infarction. Major secondary hypotheses posit
      GIK will reduce mortality (30 days and 1 year), reduce pre- or in-hospital cardiac arrest
      and the propensity for heart failure. Other hypotheses address mechanisms of these effects.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 30 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Symptoms of threatened or established AMI including but not limited to:

               1. Chest pain, discomfort, or tightness

               2. Arm or shoulder pain

               3. Jaw pain

               4. Epigastric discomfort

               5. Shortness of breath

          -  12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) with two or more contiguous leads with ST elevation
             greater than 1 mm, ST depression greater than 0.5 mm, T wave inversion or other T
             wave abnormalities (hyperacute T waves), or left bundle branch block (not known to be
             old). Identification aided by the acute cardiac ischemia time-insensitive predictive
             instrument (ACI-TIPI)and thrombolytic predictive instrument (TPI) decision support
             software (ACI-TIPI >= 75% and TPI detection of suspected STEMI).

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  End-stage kidney failure requiring dialysis

          -  Rales present more than halfway up the back

          -  Unable to comply with the requirements of the study

          -  Incarcerated

          -  Known to be pregnant
      
