TITLE:
DCEP in Combination With Thalidomide as Salvage Therapy for Post Transplantation Relapse

CONDITION:
Multiple Myeloma

INTERVENTION:
Thalidomide

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this investigational trial is to find out how well patients respond and how
      long their response lasts when treated with a four day chemotherapy regimen involving
      dexamethasone, cytoxan, etoposide, and cisplatinum, or DCEP with or without thalidomide.
      Another purpose is to find out what kind of side effects patients will experience.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Each patient enrolled to this study will be assigned to either receive DCEP alone, or in
      combination with thalidomide. Since it is not known at this time which treatment is the
      best, you will be placed by chance in one of the two groups.

      Treatment consists of three cycles of combination chemotherapy, each over four days. Three
      drugs, Cytoxan, etoposide, and cisplatin will be given into the vein as a continuous
      four-day infusion. Decadron will be given by mouth over four days. G-CSF will also be given
      daily as a shot under the skin to help bone marrow recover.

      After 3 cycles of combination chemotherapy, your myeloma will be reassessed. If myeloma is
      stable or responding, patients will receive an additional 3 cycles of chemotherapy. Then
      myeloma will again be reassessed and if again found to be stable or responding,3 final
      cycles of chemotherapy will be given.

      Following the completion of chemotherapy, or sooner if your physician feels that the
      chemotherapy side effects are to great, patients will receive maintenance therapy with
      dexamethasone. Patients originally assigned to receive thalidomide, will continue to take
      thalidomide daily throughout protocol treatment.

      The major reason for conducting this research is to gather biologic information from
      patients who have myeloma. Information gained from such research may contribute to a greater
      understanding of the reasons for treatment failure and may assist in the selection of
      appropriate treatment for individual patients.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  All patients must have a confirmed diagnosis of previously treated, active multiple
             myeloma, with relapse or progression following at least one autologous transplant.
             High risk is defined as any one of the following at the time of relapse:a) Plasma
             cell labeling index (PCLI) > 1%, b) Bone marrow plasmacytosis > or = 30%, c)Bartl
             grade >or = 2 on bone marrow biopsy, or d)Cytogenetic abnormalities of chromosome 13,
             11q, or any translocation at the time of relapse.

          -  Patients must be 18 years of age or older. Women of childbearing age and fertile men
             must use a medically acceptable means of birth control while on study and for 6
             months thereafter.

          -  Patients must sign an informed consent to participate in this study, and be fully
             aware of the known teratogenic potential of this drug combination.

          -  Patients must have a SWOG performance status of 0-2. Patients with a poor performance
             status (3-4) based solely on bone pain, will be eligible.

          -  Patients must have adequate renal function, as defined by serum creatinine < or = 3.0
             mg/dl

          -  Before starting treatment, women of childbearing potential should have a negative
             pregnancy test performed within 24 hours prior to beginning therapy. Written report
             of a negative pregnancy test must be obtained before a prescription for thalidomide
             is issued. Pregnancy testing is not required for 1) women wh have been
             post-menopausal for at least 2 years with no menses, 2) women who have had a
             hysterectomy.

          -  Patients must have adequate bone marrow function, as defined by platelet count of
             150,000/microliter, unless explained by extensive marrow plasmacytosis.

          -  Patients must be off chemotherapy (excluding steroids) and local radiotherapy for > 3
             weeks prior to entering the study

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  There must be no evidence of active infection requiring IV antibiotics

          -  No other concurrent therapy for myeloma is permitted while on protocol
      
