TITLE:
Anti-Angiogenesis Therapy Using Thalidomide in Patients With Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia

CONDITION:
Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia

INTERVENTION:
Thalidomide

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this research is to study how helpful thalidomide is in controlling the
      disease and to study any side effects from taking thalidomide.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Patients will receive thalidomide in the oral form each night before bed. The dose of
      thalidomide will be increased each week until week 7 as long as there are no significant
      side effects.

      Routine physical examinations and blood tests will be done to monitor the effect of
      treatment and the toxicities encountered, if any, and provide the available treatments for
      side effects accordingly. Blood tests will be done to monitor the tumor response.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients must have a confirmed diagnosis of previously treated, active Waldenstrom's
             Macroglobulinemia

          -  Patients must have adequate hematologic function as demonstrated by total white blood
             count > or = 2000/mm3, adequate renal function as demonstrated by serum creatinine <
             or = 3.0 mg/dl, and adequate hepatic function as demonstrated by bilirubin < or = 1.5
             mg/dl and transaminases < or = 4 x ULN

          -  All patients must be informed of the investigational nature of this study and must
             sign and give written informed consent in accordance with institutional and federal
             guidelines

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  No other concurrent therapy for WM is permitted while on thalidomide

          -  Pregnant or nursing women may not participate. Before starting treatment, women of
             childbearing potential should have a negative pregnancy test performed within 24
             hours prior to beginning therapy. Written report of a negative pregnancy test must be
             obtained before a prescription for thalidomide is issued. Women/men of reproductive
             potential may not participate unless they have agreed to use an effective
             contraceptive method. Pregnancy testing is not required for 1) women who have been
             post-menopausal for at least 2 years with no menses, 2) women who have had a
             hysterectomy.
      
