TITLE:
Lonafarnib and Temozolomide in Treating Patients With Recurrent Primary Supratentorial Gliomas

CONDITION:
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors

INTERVENTION:
lonafarnib

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Lonafarnib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary
      for their growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, work in different ways
      to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Giving lonafarnib together
      with temozolomide may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of lonafarnib when
      given together with temozolomide in treating patients with recurrent primary supratentorial
      glioma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose-limiting toxicity of lonafarnib when
           administered with temozolomide in patients with recurrent primary supratentorial
           gliomas.

        -  Determine the safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the mechanism of action of lonafarnib in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the activity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the response to this regimen in patients who have measurable disease.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, multicenter, open-label, dose-escalation study of
      lonafarnib.

      Patients receive oral temozolomide once daily on days 2-6 of course 1 and on days 1-5 of all
      subsequent courses. Patients also receive oral lonafarnib twice daily on days 1-28. Courses
      repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of lonafarnib until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which 1 of 6 patients experience
      dose-limiting toxicity. An additional 3 patients may be treated at the highest dose level
      achieved.

      Patients are followed every 8 weeks for 6 months and then every 3 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed primary supratentorial glioma

               -  Multifocal disease allowed

          -  Recurrent disease after prior surgery and/or radiotherapy

          -  Radiological evidence of increased and/or enhanced target lesion

          -  Amenable to temozolomide therapy

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  Over 18

        Performance status

          -  ECOG 0-2 OR

          -  WHO 0-2

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Neutrophil count  1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count  100,000/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin  10.0 g/dL

        Hepatic

          -  Alkaline phosphatase < 2.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  Transaminases < 2.5 times ULN

          -  Bilirubin < 1.5 times ULN

        Renal

          -  Creatinine < 1.7 mg/dL

        Cardiovascular

          -  Cardiac function clinically normal

          -  Normal 12-lead ECG

          -  QTc  440 msec on ECG

          -  No ischemic heart disease within the past 6 months

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception during and for 3 months after study
             participation

          -  No unstable systemic disease

          -  No active uncontrolled infection

          -  No psychological, familial, sociological, or geographical condition that would
             preclude study compliance and follow-up

          -  No other active or recurrent malignancy within the past 5 years except cone biopsied
             carcinoma of the cervix or adequately treated basal cell or squamous cell skin cancer

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  No concurrent anticancer biologic agents

        Chemotherapy

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior chemotherapy (6 weeks for temozolomide)

          -  Prior adjuvant chemotherapy allowed

          -  No more than 1 prior chemotherapy regimen for recurrent disease

          -  No other concurrent chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy

          -  Concurrent corticosteroids allowed provided treatment remains at a stable or
             decreasing dose for at least 2 weeks

        Radiotherapy

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No concurrent radiotherapy

        Surgery

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 3 months since prior surgery for primary brain tumor

        Other

          -  Concurrent anticonvulsants allowed

          -  No other concurrent anticancer agents

          -  No other concurrent investigational therapy
      
