TITLE:
Ecteinascidin 743 in Treating Patients With Malignant Mesothelioma

CONDITION:
Malignant Mesothelioma

INTERVENTION:
trabectedin

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of ecteinascidin 743 in treating patients
      who have malignant mesothelioma that cannot be removed by surgery.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine partial and complete response rates in patients with unresectable
      malignant mesothelioma treated with ecteinascidin 743. II. Determine the toxicity profile of
      this drug in these patients. III. Determine the pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic
      relationships of this drug in these patients. IV. Determine the duration of response, time
      to disease progression, 6-month progression-free survival, time to treatment failure, and
      overall survival of patients treated with this drug. V. Assess the quality of life of these
      patients treated with this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients receive ecteinascidin 743 IV over 3 hours on
      day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for at least 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with a complete response (CR) receive 2
      additional courses after achieving CR. Quality of life is assessed at baseline and at the
      beginning of each course of therapy. Patients are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20-36 patients will be accrued for this study within 12-24
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically or cytologically confirmed malignant mesothelioma
        that is not amenable to curative surgery At least 1 unidimensionally measurable lesion
        that is at least 15 mm by CT scan OR At least 1 bidimensionally measurable lesion that is
        at least 10 mm by CT scan Lesions in previously irradiated area are not considered
        measurable unless there is evidence of progression No symptomatic brain or leptomeningeal
        involvement

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: ECOG 0-1 OR Karnofsky
        70-100% Life expectancy: At least 3 months Hematopoietic: Neutrophil count at least
        1,500/mm3 Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3 Hemoglobin at least 10 g/dL Hepatic:
        Bilirubin no greater than upper limit of normal (ULN) Alkaline phosphatase no greater than
        ULN unless bone metastases are present AST/ALT no greater than 2.5 times ULN Albumin at
        least 2.5 g/dL No chronic active liver disease Renal: Creatinine no greater than 1.5 mg/dL
        OR Creatinine clearance at least 40 mL/min Cardiovascular: No uncontrolled heart disease
        No uncontrolled hypertension Other: Not pregnant or nursing Negative pregnancy test
        Fertile patients must use effective contraception during and for one month after study No
        other serious illness or medical condition No history of significant neurological or
        psychiatric disorders No significant active infection No other concurrent neoplastic
        disease except non-melanoma skin cancer or carcinoma in situ of the cervix

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: No prophylactic hematopoietic
        colony-stimulating factors (e.g., filgrastim (G-CSF) or sargramostim (GM-CSF))
        Chemotherapy: No prior systemic chemotherapy No other concurrent chemotherapy Endocrine
        therapy: No concurrent hormonal therapy Radiotherapy: See Disease Characteristics At least
        30 days since prior radiotherapy and recovered No concurrent radiotherapy except
        palliative local radiotherapy to non-target lesions Surgery: See Disease Characteristics
        At least 14 days since prior pleurodesis Recovered from prior surgery Other: At least 30
        days since prior participation in another therapeutic clinical trial or therapy with other
        investigational drugs No concurrent treatment for other neoplastic disease No other
        concurrent experimental anticancer medication
      
