TITLE:
Signs and Symptoms Associated With Molecular Defects in Genetically Inherited Heart Disease

CONDITION:
Congenital Heart Defect

INTERVENTION:
NONE

SUMMARY:

      Genetically inherited heart diseases (familial cardiopathies) are conditions affecting the
      heart passed on to family members by abnormalities in genetic information. These conditions
      are responsible for many heart related deaths and illnesses.

      Researchers are interested in learning more about the specific genetic abnormalities causing
      heart diseases. In addition, they would like to find out how these abnormal genes can
      contribute to the development of other medical problems.

      In order to do this, researchers plan to study patients and family members of patients
      diagnosed with genetically inherited heart disease. Those people participating in the study
      will undergo a variety of tests including blood tests, echocardiograms, and magnetic
      resonance imaging studies (MRI). These tests will be used to help researchers find the
      genetic problem causing the familial cardiopathy.

      Researchers hope that the information gathered from this study can be used to develop better
      medical care through early diagnosis, management, and treatment plans.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Familial cardiomyopathies (FC) are important cardiovascular causes of morbidity and
      mortality that demonstrate both allelic and non-allelic genetic heterogeneity. We propose to
      perform genetic studies to determine novel molecular causes of FC and to describe their
      clinical correlates. This will permit: (1) pre-symptomatic diagnosis; (2) definition of
      cardiac phenotype, disease penetrance; (3) natural history; (4) study of abnormal physiology
      that is a consequence of the molecular defect; (5) elucidation of specific mechanisms of
      arrythmias and sudden death; and (6) demonstration and characterization of skeletal muscle
      involvement.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION AND EXCLUSION CRITERIA

        The subjects will consist of family members who may have inherited FC and spouses that may
        help in the linkage studies. Family members or spouses who do not wish to participate in
        the research protocol will be excluded from the study.
      
