TITLE:
A Study of Decreased Mental Function Associated With HIV

CONDITION:
Cognitive Disorders

INTERVENTION:
Selegiline hydrochloride

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to compare pictures of the brain of HIV-infected people with
      memory problems before and after treatment with selegiline. Selegiline is the study drug
      received through A5090.

      HIV patients generally develop memory problems late in the disease. This will be examined
      using noninvasive proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS). The effect of the drug
      selegiline on memory problems also will be examined.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      HIV-associated cognitive impairment generally develops during the later stages of the
      disease. This study proposes to non-invasively examine the pattern and extent of cerebral
      injury associated with HIV infection and its response to selegiline by using 1H-MRS. The
      following hypotheses will be tested: selegiline, a compound with antioxidant and
      anti-apoptotic properties, will reverse the metabolic abnormalities measured by 1H-MRS, and
      these changes will parallel the degree of improvement in cognitive and functional
      performance.

      This is a substudy of ACTG A5090. The pattern and extent of cerebral injury associated with
      HIV infection and its response to selegiline are examined using a 1H-MRS. 1H-MRS evaluations
      are performed at screening and Week 24 (or at the time of premature discontinuation) of Step
      1 of A5090. The screening MRS exams may only be performed once all A5090 screening
      evaluations (including the lumbar puncture) have been completed and it has been determined
      that the patient is eligible for A5090 study entry.

      The screening MRS must be performed prior to A5090 study drug administration. The Week-24
      MRS must be performed while the patient is still on blinded study drug.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

        Patients may be eligible for this study if they:

          -  Are enrolled in ACTG protocol A5090.

          -  Meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria set forth for the Step 1 phase of AACTG
             protocol A5090.

        Exclusion Criteria

        Patients will not be eligible for this study if they have:

          -  Claustrophobia (unless sedation with lorazepam or zolpidem allows for safe
             performance of the MRS).

          -  Metallic implants/medical devices (e.g., skull implants or cardiac devices).
      
