TITLE:
Observation or Radiation Therapy and/or Chemotherapy and Second Surgery in Treating Children Who Have Undergone Surgery for Ependymoma

CONDITION:
Brain Tumor

INTERVENTION:
filgrastim

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Specialized radiation therapy that delivers a high dose of radiation directly to
      the tumor may kill more tumor cells and cause less damage to normal tissue. Drugs used in
      chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or
      die. Giving chemotherapy before surgery may shrink the tumor so that it can be removed
      during surgery.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to determine the effectiveness of specialized radiation therapy
      either alone or after chemotherapy and second surgery in treating children who have
      undergone surgery for localized ependymoma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the local control and pattern of failure in children with completely
           resected, differentiated, supratentorial localized ependymoma after initial surgical
           resection alone.

        -  Determine the rate of complete resection with second surgery after chemotherapy in
           patients with initially incompletely resected localized ependymoma.

        -  Determine the local control and pattern of failure in patients treated with conformal
           radiotherapy.

        -  Determine the influence of histologic grade on the time to progression in patients
           after treatment with conformal radiotherapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to extent of prior
      surgical resection.

        -  Group 1 (patients with supratentorial differentiated ependymoma who have undergone
           gross total resection and have no visible residual tumor): Patients undergo
           observation.

        -  Group 2 (patients with supratentorial anaplastic ependymoma or infratentorial
           anaplastic or differentiated ependymoma who have undergone gross total resection or
           near total resection): Patients undergo conformal radiotherapy to the brain once daily
           5 days a week for 6-6 weeks.

        -  Group 3 (patients with tumor of any histology or location who have undergone subtotal
           resection): Patients receive an initial course of chemotherapy comprising vincristine
           IV on days 1 and 8, carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1, and cyclophosphamide IV over 1
           hour on days 1 and 2. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously or IV
           beginning on day 3 and continuing until blood counts recover. Patients then receive a
           second course of chemotherapy comprising vincristine IV on days 1 and 8, carboplatin IV
           over 1 hour on day 1, and oral etoposide on days 1-21. After completion of
           chemotherapy, patients are evaluated for second surgery. Patients who have unresectable
           disease undergo conformal radiotherapy. Patients who have resectable disease undergo
           second surgery followed by conformal radiotherapy.

      Patients are followed every 4 months for 3 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 250-350 patients will be accrued for this study within 5
      years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 1 Year to 21 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed intracranial ependymoma

               -  Differentiated ependymoma or anaplastic ependymoma

          -  No primary spinal cord ependymoma, myxopapillary ependymoma, subependymoma,
             ependymoblastoma, or mixed glioma

          -  No evidence of noncontiguous spread beyond primary site

          -  Initial surgical resection within the past 56 days

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  1 to 21

        Performance status:

          -  No restrictions

        Life expectancy:

          -  At least 2 months

        Hematopoietic:

          -  Not specified

        Hepatic:

          -  Not specified

        Renal:

          -  Not specified

        Other:

          -  Able to undergo MRI

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy:

          -  Not specified

        Chemotherapy:

          -  No prior chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  Prior or concurrent corticosteroids allowed

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No prior radiotherapy

        Surgery:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  More than 1 prior surgery allowed

        Other:

          -  No other prior treatment for ependymoma
      
