TITLE:
Tipifarnib in Treating Older Patients With Previously Untreated Acute Myeloid Leukemia

CONDITION:
Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Multilineage Dysplasia Following Myelodysplastic Syndrome

INTERVENTION:
tipifarnib

SUMMARY:

      Tipifarnib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their
      growth. Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of tipifarnib in treating older patients
      who have previously untreated acute myeloid leukemia
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the complete response rate of R115777 (tipifarnib) in previously untreated
      acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in (a) elderly patients (age >= 75) and (b) patients (age >=
      65) with AML preceded by myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), using a chronic dosing schedule.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine progression-free and overall survival in patients with previously untreated
      AML treated with R115777, using a chronic dosing schedule.

      II. To determine the duration of response in patients with previously untreated AML treated
      with R115777, using a chronic dosing schedule.

      III. To determine the effect of R115777 on the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein
      kinase (MAPK) and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase, catalytic subunit alpha
      (PI3K) in leukemic cells.

      IV. To determine the effect of R115777 on processing of the farnesylated protein HDJ-2.

      V. To determine the toxicities of R115777 when given in a chronic dosing schedule.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive oral tipifarnib twice daily on days 1-21. Patients with a complete or
      partial response, hematologic improvement, or stable disease continue treatment every 29-63
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with a
      complete response after the second course of therapy receive 2 additional courses of
      therapy.

      Patients are followed for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 125 patients will be accrued for this study within 11-17
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 65 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Pathologic confirmation of the diagnosis of AML (>= 20% marrow blasts)

          -  ECOG performance status 0 or 1

          -  Patients must be able to give informed consent

          -  SGOT and SGPT =< 2.5 x normal limits (grade 1)

          -  Serum creatinine =< 1.5 x normal limits (grade 1)

          -  AML (any of the following):

               -  Newly diagnosed AML in adults >= 75 years

               -  Newly diagnosed AML arising from MDS in adults >= 65 years

          -  Hyperleukocytosis with >= 30,000 leukemic blasts/uL

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Acute promyelocytic (FAB M3) subtype

          -  Previously treated with chemotherapy for leukemia (except for hydroxyurea)

          -  Disseminated intravascular coagulation (laboratory or clinical)

          -  Active central nervous system leukemia

          -  Concomitant radiation therapy, chemotherapy, or immunotherapy; previous therapy for
             another malignancy is permitted, provided that at least 1 month has occurred since
             patient received any of these treatments

          -  Intrinsic impaired organ function (as stated above)

          -  Symptomatic neuropathy (grade 2 or worse)

          -  Known allergy to imidazole drugs, such as ketoconazole, miconazole, econazole,
             teconazole, clotrimazole, fenticonazole, isoconazole, sulconazole, or ticonazole

          -  Physical or psychiatric conditions that in the estimation of the principal
             investigator (PI) or designee place the patient at high risk of toxicity or
             non-compliance, e.g. severe congestive heart failure (CHF), unstable angina, or
             poorly controlled psychosis
      
