TITLE:
A Trial Study of SGN-00101 in Treating Pediatric Patients With Recurrent Respiratory Papillomatosis

CONDITION:
Papilloma

INTERVENTION:
SGN-00101

SUMMARY:

      Recurrent Respiratory Papillomatosis (RRP) causes wart-like lesions along the throat area
      and can obstruct the airway or become malignant. The cause has been related to specific
      types of Human Papillomavirus (HPV). The purpose of the study is to assess the clinical
      effectiveness of a trial drug, SGN-00101, in children with RRP and also assess its safety.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 2 Years to 18 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male or female between 2 and 18 yrs old, inclusive, who has documented RRP.

          -  Patients with documented RRP

          -  Subject is surgically debulked within 7 days before the first dose of SGN-00101.

          -  Subject has had at least 4 debulking surgeries for RRP, had no intersurgical
             intervals greater than 84 days during the period of the last 4 surgeries.

          -  Subject is free of life threatening or serious concomitant disorders other than the
             disease under study.

          -  Females of childbearing potential must have a negative pregnancy test and must be
             practicing an effective/appropriate method of birth control as determined by the
             Investigator.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Subject has disease or status that causes compromise of the immune system.

          -  Subject has a history of ionizing radiation therapy to the respiratory tract.

          -  Patient has used concomitant medications that may suppress the immune system.

          -  Subject has received any specific or non-specific immunotherapy intended as treatment
             for their RRP (i.e. mumps vaccine injected intralesionally) within 9 months prior to
             Week 0 of this study.

          -  Subject has participated in a past study with SGN-00101

          -  Pregnancy and lactation.
      
