TITLE:
A Study Of Deoxycoformycin(DCF)/Pentostatin In Lymphoid Malignancies

CONDITION:
Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
Deoxycoformycin (DCF)

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to determine the side effects and antitumor response of
      patients with lymphoid malignancies to Deoxycoformycin (DCF)/Pentostatin.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Deoxycoformycin(DCF)/Pentostatin is a T-cell cytotoxic drug with previously reported
      responses in lymphoid malignancies but larger studies are needed.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 16 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Histologic proof of lymphoid malignancy with an expected complete response rate of
             less than 20 percent OR have failed at least one prior therapy.

          -  No chemotherapy within 3 weeks of entry into study and must have recovered from acute
             toxic effects of prior therapy.

          -  Life expectancy of at least 12 weeks.

          -  Performance status equal to or less than Zubrod 2.

          -  Signed informed consent.

          -  Patients with measurable disease.

          -  Age at least 16 years.

          -  Adequate bone marrow function (unless involvement of bone marrow by lymphoma) defined
             as AGC greater than 1500 and platelet count greater than 100,000.

          -  Adequate hepatic function with a bilirubin less than or equal to 1.5 mg % and SGPT
             less than or equal to 4 times the upper limits of normal.

          -  Adequate renal function defined as serum creatine less than or equal to 1.5 mg %.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  No serious intercurrent illness.

          -  Adequate contraception (if applicable).

          -  NO patients with significant cardiac disease, i.e. New York Heart Association (NYHA)
             class III or IV.

          -  NO experimental clinical trial within 3 weeks of study entry.

          -  NO patients with active CNS disease.

          -  Full recovery from any prior surgical treatment.

          -  NO active active infections.
      
