TITLE:
Therapy of Relapsed AML With Chemotherapy and Dendritic Cell Activated Lymphocytes

CONDITION:
Acute Myelogenous Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
Dendritic Cell Activated Lymphocyte

SUMMARY:

      1. Determine the feasibility of generation of autologous Acute Myelogenous Leukemia (AML)
           or Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia in myeloid blast crisis (CML/BC) derived dendritic cell
           activated lymphocytes (DC/AL) in poor prognosis patients.

        2. Determine the toxicity of autologous leukemia derived dendritic cell activated
           lymphocytes (DC/AL) in patients with AML or CML/BC.

        3. Quantitate circulating immune effector cells in patients after infusion of DC/AL.

        4. Record the efficacy of AML or CML/BC derived dendritic cells and activated lymphocytes
           in promoting and sustaining remission in patients with AML or CML/BC.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Most patients relapsing with AML either fail to achieve second remission or have only brief
      remissions. Patients more than 60 years of age or having histories of antecedent
      hematological disorders, prior chemotherapy, or poor risk cytogenetics have generally only
      short remissions and as a group have two year survivals of less than 10%. Equally patients
      with myeloid blast crisis of CML often fail to achieve remission or have responses of only
      brief duration. Laboratory studies have shown that AML leukemic blasts may be induced in
      culture to differentiate into dendritic cells which in turn may be used activate autologous
      lymphocytes to acquire leukemia specific cytotoxicity. This trial will assess the
      feasibility of generation of dendritic cell activated lymphocytes, and toxicity and efficacy
      of these activated cells given after reinduction chemotherapy. Before this study begins some
      toxicity information will have been generated in a trial of similar cells given to CML
      patients.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion:

          -  AML patients either after first relapse or at diagnosis a) with high-risk
             cytogenetics such as -7, -5, +8, chromosome 9 or 11 abnormality, or b) WBC > 50,000,
             or c) age > 60 years*.

          -  AML patients are eligible for cell collection if they have > 1000 circulating
             blasts/mm at diagnosis.

          -  CML patients in myeloid blast crisis with > 1000 circulating blasts/mm.

          -  Creatinine <2, Bilirubin <3.

          -  Age >18.

        Exclusion:

          -  Factors which would prevent the patient from receiving or cooperating with the full
             course of therapy or understanding the informed consent procedure.

          -  Concurrent or expected need for therapy with corticosteroids.

          -  Positive antibody to human immunodeficiency virus I.

          -  Acute promyelocytic Leukemia (FAB-M3).

          -  History of overt cardiac failure, systemic autoimmune disease or expected need for
             steroid therapy.

               -  Patients >60 will be eligible for study but if found to have good prognosis
                  cytogenetics (inversion (16) or t(8;21)) will subsequently be withdrawn from
                  study and treated off protocol without infusion of autologous leukemia derived
                  cells.
      
