TITLE:
Thalidomide for Multiple Myeloma

CONDITION:
Multiple Myeloma

INTERVENTION:
Thalidomide

SUMMARY:

      The objective of this protocol is to assess therapeutic activity of thalidomide in
      previously untreated patients with asymptomatic multiple myeloma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This study attempts to examine the potential efficacy of thalidomide in the treatment of
      patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma. The trial focuses on patients with
      asymptomatic and indolent disease who do not require immediate chemotherapy. We intend to
      treat asymptomatic patients with an initial dose of 200 mg each evening, increasing to a
      maximum of 800 mg.

      Thalidomide is supplied as 50 mg capsules to be taken by mouth. The initial dose will be 200
      mg at bedtime daily for 14 days (days 1-14), followed by an increase to 400 mg daily for 14
      days (days 15-28), 600 mg daily for 14 days (days 29-42), up to a maximum 800 mg (days
      43-completion) daily provided there are no side effects.

      Patients who experience significant toxicity (grade 2 or more) at any time during therapy
      will receive a lower dose after treatment is interrupted for at least 2 days.

      Once a maximum tolerated dose has been reached free of side effects, that dose will be
      continued for a total of 3 months from institution of therapy before definition of response
      or resistance. Only patients who have received at least 200 mg/d for at least 2 months will
      be considered evaluable for response. For patients in remission, treatment will be continued
      at the maximum dose free of side effects until relapse. Selected patients <55 years of age
      who achieve remission may be eligible for stem cell transplant (SCT) in which case
      thalidomide will be discontinued prior to SCT.

      Patients must be willing to return for evaluation every 4 weeks since thalidomide may only
      be prescribed for 28 day intervals.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        -  Previously untreated patients with multiple myeloma and without serious or imminent
             complications (e.g. impending pathologic fracture, hypercalcemia, renal
             insufficiency). All asymptomatic patients with low or intermediate tumor mass will
             qualify.

          -  Patients with high tumor mass, symptomatic or impending fractures, hypercalcemia
             (corrected calcium >11.5 mg%), anemia (Hgb <8.5 gm/dl), renal failure (creatinine
             >2.0 mg/dl), high serum lactate dehydrogenase (>300 U/L) or plasma cell leukemia
             (>1000/ul) are ineligible.

          -  Overt infections or unexplained fever should be resolved before treatment. Adequate
             liver function (including SGPT, bilirubin and LDH) is required.

          -  Patients must have Zubrod performance of 1 or less.

          -  Patients must provide written informed consent indicating that they are aware of the
             investigational nature of this study.

          -  Life expectancy should exceed 1 year.

          -  Patients with idiopathic monoclonal gammopathy and non-secretory multiple myeloma are
             ineligible. Patients whose only prior therapy has been with local radiotherapy,
             alpha-IFN, or ATRA are eligible. Patients exposed to prior high-dose glucocorticoid
             or alkylating agent are not eligible.
      
