TITLE:
Thalidomide-Dexamethasone for Multiple Myeloma

CONDITION:
Multiple Myeloma

INTERVENTION:
Thalidomide

SUMMARY:

      Objective is to assess the activity of the combination of thalidomide and dexamethasone in
      patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This study will examine the potential efficacy of thalidomide-dexamethasone in the treatment
      of patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma.

        -  Thalidomide is supplied as 50 mg capsules to be taken by mouth.

        -  Thalidomide 200 mg daily each evening at bedtime increasing by 100-200 mg increments
           (according to patient tolerability) every 4 weeks.

      For elderly patients, or those with poor performance status or comorbid conditions which may
      affect tolerance of the thalidomide-dexamethasone combination, the initial dose may be
      reduced by 50-100 mg decrements and escalated weekly by 50-100 mg increments to tolerance.
      For patients who experience significant toxicity (> grade 2) or are otherwise unable to
      tolerate this drug combination, the dose will be reduced by 50-100 mg decrements. For some
      patients with > grade 2 toxicity, it may be necessary to hold the thalidomide dose until
      improvement of the side effect with subsequent resumption of the dose after dose reduction
      as outlined above.

      Dexamethasone 20mg/m2 each morning after breakfast on days 1-4, 9-12, 17-20, with a repeat
      cycle after a 1-2 week rest period. In case of partial remission, maintenance treatment with
      thalidomide alone will be continued for as long as remission is sustained at a dose free of
      side effects.

      For patients achieving CR, consolidation with thalidomide-dexamethasone for 4-6 months
      followed by follow-up without maintenance treatment. No maximum trial period is planned.

      At relapse patients may be reinitiated on the original thalidomide-pulse dexamethasone
      program and responding patients may be maintained on thalidomide alone (CR) or daily
      thalidomide and dexamethasone (days 1-4) until relapse.

      Patients who experience significant toxicity (grade 2 or more) at any time during therapy
      will receive a lower dose after treatment is interrupted.

      In an attempt to avoid deep venous thrombosis, all patients for whom anticoagulation is not
      contraindicated will be offered therapeutic anticoagulation (INR 1.5-2.5) with coumadin or
      therapeutic doses of low molecular weight heparin.

      Patients must be willing to return for evaluation every 4 weeks since thalidomide may only
      be prescribed for 28 day intervals.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        -  Previously untreated patients with symptomatic or progressive asymptomatic multiple
             myeloma. Criteria for progression among patients with asymptomatic disease include
             new lytic bone lesions, rise of serum myeloma protein to >5.0 gm/dl or fall of Hgb to
             <10.5 gm/dl.

          -  Overt infection or unexplained fever should be resolved before treatment or treated
             concurrently with antibiotics.

          -  Patients must provide written informed consent indicating that they are aware of the
             investigational nature of this study.

          -  Patients with idiopathic monoclonal gammopathy or stable asymptomatic myeloma are
             ineligible.

          -  Patients whose only prior therapy has been with local radiotherapy or alpha
             interferon are eligible.

          -  Patients treated with steroids in order to stabilize disease within 60 days prior to
             enrollment are eligible.

          -  Patients exposed to longer periods of high-dose glucocorticoid, or with any exposure
             to thalidomide or alkylating agent are ineligible.
      
