TITLE:
Thalidomide, Doxorubicin, and Dexamethasone in Treating Patients With Untreated Stage II or Stage III Multiple Myeloma

CONDITION:
Multiple Myeloma and Plasma Cell Neoplasm

INTERVENTION:
dexamethasone

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Thalidomide may stop the growth of multiple myeloma by stopping blood flow to the
      cancer cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from
      dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining thalidomide with chemotherapy may kill more
      cancer cells.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of thalidomide, doxorubicin, and
      dexamethasone in treating patients who have untreated stage II or stage III multiple
      myeloma.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the response rate of patients with previously untreated stage II or
      III multiple myeloma treated with thalidomide, doxorubicin, and dexamethasone. II. Determine
      the safety and toxicity of this regimen in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive oral dexamethasone on days 1-4, 9-12, and 17-20, doxorubicin IV on
      day 1, and oral thalidomide daily. Treatment repeats every 30 days for 4 courses in the
      absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 21-45 patients will be accrued for this study within
      approximately 1 year.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed multiple myeloma Stage II disease
        Symptomatic due to progressive disease OR Stage III disease No stage I multiple myeloma or
        smoldering myeloma

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 18 and over Performance status: ECOG 0-3 Life expectancy:
        More than 4 months Hematopoietic: Absolute granulocyte count at least 1,500/mm3* Platelet
        count at least 100,000/mm3* *Unless due to multiple myeloma Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater
        than 2.0 mg/dL ALT and AST no greater than 3 times upper limit of normal (ULN) Alkaline
        phosphatase no greater than 3 times ULN Renal: Elevated creatinine allowed Cardiovascular:
        LVEF at least 50% by MUGA or ECHO No active angina No myocardial infarction within the
        past 6 months Other: Not pregnant or nursing Negative pregnancy test Fertile patients must
        use effective contraception at least 4 weeks prior to, during, and for at least 4 weeks
        after study No grade II or greater pre-existing neuropathy No other concurrent or prior
        active malignancy within the past 2 years except adequately treated non-melanoma skin
        cancer or carcinoma in situ of the cervix Prior T1a or T1b prostate cancer (detected
        incidentally at transurethral resection of prostate (TURP) and comprising less than 5% of
        resected tissue) allowed if PSA normal since TURP HIV negative No AIDS-related illness No
        other medical condition that would preclude study

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: No prior
        chemotherapy for multiple myeloma Endocrine therapy: No more than 1 course of prior pulse
        dexamethasone Prior steroids of less than 1 month duration for emergent indications or
        life-threatening lesions (e.g., hypercalcemia or spinal cord compromise) allowed
        Radiotherapy: Prior radiotherapy allowed Surgery: Not specified
      
