TITLE:
Vinorelbine in Treating Older Patients With Stage IIIB or Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer

CONDITION:
Lung Cancer

INTERVENTION:
vinorelbine tartrate

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing
      so they stop growing or die.

      PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of vinorelbine taken by mouth in treating
      older patients who have stage IIIB or stage IV non-small cell lung cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the objective response rate in elderly patients with stage IIIB or
      IV non-small cell lung cancer treated with oral vinorelbine. II. Determine the time to
      progression in patients treated with this drug. III. Determine the toxicity of this drug in
      these patients. IV. Determine whether there is a perceived preference for this oral
      administration in these patients. V. Determine the quality of life of these patients when
      treated with this drug. VI. Assess individual variation in responses, pharmacokinetic
      parameters, and/or biological correlates in patients treated with this drug.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive oral vinorelbine on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every
      28 days for 4-6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and after 8 weeks of therapy. Patients are followed
      every 3 months for 5 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 65 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS: Histologically confirmed stage IIIB or IV non-small cell lung
        cancer Measurable disease At least 1 lesion that is 2.0 cm or more in longest diameter CNS
        metastases allowed if previously treated and clinically stable for at least 8 weeks prior
        to study No meningeal carcinomatosis Participation in translational research component of
        this study is mandatory

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: Age: 65 and over Performance status: ECOG 0-2 Life expectancy: At
        least 12 weeks Hematopoietic: Platelet count at least 100,000/mm3 Hemoglobin at least 10.0
        g/dL Absolute neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm3 Hepatic: Bilirubin no greater than 2.0
        mg/dL Renal: Creatinine no greater than 2 times upper limit of normal Other: No dysphagia
        or inability to swallow capsules intact No peripheral neuropathy grade 2 or greater No
        other significant medical condition that would preclude study No active infection within
        the past 2 weeks No other malignancy within the past 5 years

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY: Biologic therapy: Not specified Chemotherapy: No prior
        chemotherapy for this disease within the past 5 years Endocrine therapy: Not specified
        Radiotherapy: At least 3 weeks since prior radiotherapy and recovered No prior
        radiotherapy to more than 25% of bone marrow No prior radiotherapy to measurable lesion
        unless documented progression after therapy No concurrent radiotherapy, including
        palliative radiotherapy Surgery: At least 3 weeks since prior major surgery
      
