TITLE:
Thalidomide in Treating Patients With Myelodysplastic Syndrome

CONDITION:
Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
thalidomide

SUMMARY:

      Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of thalidomide in treating patients who have
      myelodysplastic syndrome. Thalidomide may improve the immune system's ability to fight
      myelodysplastic syndrome
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether thalidomide improves cytopenias in patients with myelodysplastic
      syndromes.

      II. Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine whether this
      regimen down regulates the peripheral blood levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha,
      interferon gamma, and interleukin-12 and whether these changes correlate with clinical
      response in these patients.

      IV. Determine whether this regimen alters the peripheral blood T-cell subset distribution
      and whether these changes correlate with clinical response in these patients.

      V. Determine the effect of this regimen on bone marrow microvessel density and whether these
      effects correlate with clinical response in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prognosis
      (favorable vs unfavorable). (Favorable stratum closed to accrual 12/28/01)

      Patients receive oral thalidomide once daily. Treatment continues for 5 years in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 1 year and then annually for 4 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20-58 patients (10-29 per stratum) will be accrued for this
      study within 20 months. (Favorable stratum closed to accrual 12/28/01)
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Pre-transfusion hemoglobin =< 10 g/dL

          -  Pre-transfusion platelet count =< 50,000/L

          -  Absolute neutrophil count < 1000/L

          -  Total bilirubin  1.5 x UNL

          -  Alkaline phosphatase  3 x UNL

          -  AST  3 x UNL

          -  Creatinine  1.5 x UNL

          -  A diagnosis of MDS as demonstrated in the bone marrow; any subtypes are eligible
             including:

               -  Refractory anemia (cytopenia)

               -  Refractory anemia with ringed sideroblasts

               -  Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia

               -  Refractory anemia with excess blasts

               -  Refractory anemia with excess blasts in transformation

               -  Unclassified MDS

          -  Patients with refractory anemia with excess blasts in transformation who are not
             candidates for (or who decline) induction chemotherapy are eligible; those patients
             who were candidates for (and accepted) induction chemotherapy should have failed at
             least 1 chemotherapy regimen prior to entry

          -  Patients who are candidates for marrow transplantation should have this option
             discussed prior to study entry

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Any of the following as this regimen may be harmful to a developing fetus or nursing
             child:

               -  Pregnant women

               -  Nursing women

               -  Women of childbearing potential or their sexual partners who are unwilling to
                  employ 2 adequate methods of contraception (condoms, diaphragm, birth control
                  pills, injections, intrauterine device [IUD], surgical sterilization,
                  subcutaneous implants, or abstinence, etc.)

          -  Peripheral neuropathy (by history or clinical exam)

          -  Concomitant therapy  30 days for myelodysplastic syndrome with any specific agent
             including chemotherapy, corticosteroids and/or growth factors (i.e. erythropoietin,
             G-CSF, GM-CSF, thrombopoietic agent); patients on chronic low-dose corticosteriods (<
             20 mg/d) for reasons other than MDS are allowed

          -  Uncontrolled infections
      
