TITLE:
STI571 Plus Cytarabine in Treating Patients With Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia

CONDITION:
Blastic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia

INTERVENTION:
imatinib mesylate

SUMMARY:

      Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of combining STI571 and chemotherapy in treating
      patients who have chronic myelogenous leukemia. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different
      ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. STI571 may stop the
      growth of leukemia cells. Combining chemotherapy and STI571 may kill more cancer cells
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of high-dose cytarabine when combined with imatinib
      mesylate in patients with blastic phase chronic myelogenous leukemia.

      II. Determine the safety of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine the
      pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients. IV. Determine the frequency of
      hematologic and cytogenetic responses, duration of response, and survival of patients
      treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of cytarabine.

      Phase I: Patients who have not previously received imatinib mesylate receive oral imatinib
      mesylate daily on days 1-35. Patients who have previously received imatinib mesylate for at
      least 28 days receive oral imatinib mesylate on days 22-35. All patients receive cytarabine
      IV over 2 hours every 12 hours on days 29-32. Patients with more than 5% residual blasts in
      bone marrow on day 28 receive a second course in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of cytarabine until
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding
      that which 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Phase II: Additional patients are treated at the dose level preceding the MTD. Patients are
      followed monthly.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Diagnosis of chronic myelogenous leukemia in myeloid blast crisis

               -  At least 30% blasts in bone marrow

          -  Philadelphia chromosome positive by cytogenetic analysis

          -  bcr/abl translocation by fluorescent in situ hybridization

          -  Ineligible for or refused allogeneic stem cell transplantation

          -  Not previously treated with imatinib mesylate OR currently receiving imatinib
             mesylate with stable disease on 2 bone marrow biopsies at least 2 weeks apart

          -  Performance status - ECOG 0-2

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  Bilirubin less than 3 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  AST and ALT less than 3 times ULN

          -  Creatinine less than 2 times ULN

          -  No New York Heart Association class III or IV heart disease

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective barrier contraception during and for at least 2
             weeks after study for female patients and at least 3 months after study for male
             patients

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  No prior allogeneic bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplantation

          -  At least 48 hours since prior interferon alfa

          -  At least 24 hours since prior hydroxyurea

          -  At least 6 weeks since prior busulfan

          -  No other prior chemotherapy for blast crisis (except hydroxyurea)

          -  Concurrent hydroxyurea or anagrelide for severe leukocytosis or thrombocytosis
             allowed

          -  At least 4 weeks since prior investigational agents
      
