TITLE:
Repeat Antenatal Steroids Trial

CONDITION:
Complications, Pregnancy

INTERVENTION:
Betamethasone

SUMMARY:

      A course of steroids given to a mother who is in labor with a premature fetus will reduce
      the risk of the premature infant dying or having serious complications. This trial will test
      whether more than one course of antenatal steroids is more beneficial or risky to the infant
      than a single course.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      After the NICHD Consensus Development Conference in 1994, the antenatal administration of
      antenatal corticosteroids (betamethasone or dexamethasone) for prevention of death and the
      serious morbidities associated with preterm birth has become an accepted standard in
      American obstetric practice. Studies have shown that maximum beneficial effect occurs when
      the fetus is delivered within 7 days of antenatal steroid administration. The efficacy and
      safety of a single course of corticosteroids has been substantiated but it is unknown
      whether repetitive dosing has similar efficacy or what the maternal, fetal and neonatal
      risks are. Repeat courses of steroids are often administered. Two popular regimens exist for
      the patient who remains undelivered more than one week after initial therapy but who remains
      at risk for preterm birth. In one, steroids are repeated weekly until 34 weeks gestation,
      while in the other, steroids are only given once.

      This multicenter trial is testing the safety and efficacy of weekly administration of
      antenatal steroids. Twenty four hundred women < 32.0 weeks gestation who are at risk for
      spontaneous preterm delivery and remain pregnant at least seven days after an initial course
      of corticosteroids are being randomized to either weekly courses of masked study drug
      (betamethasone or placebo) for 4 weeks or delivery, whichever comes first. Patients are
      asked about side effects at the weekly visits and samples of maternal blood at randomization
      and delivery are collected. Cord blood and placentas are also collected. Cranial ultrasounds
      are done on all neonates. On a subgroup of patients, an adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH)
      stimulation test is being performed and an auditory brainstem response (ABR) performed. All
      infants attend a follow-up visit at 18 to 22 months corrected age where certified examiners,
      masked to study group assignment, collect physical and neurological data. The Bayley Scales
      of Infant Development will also be administered. A subgroup of infants will be seen at 36
      months to administer the Intelligence scale from the McCarthy Scales of Children's
      Abilities.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: N/A to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion criteria:

          -  Pregnant

          -  Gestational age > 23.0 wks and < 31.6 wks

          -  Singleton or twin pregnancy

          -  Intact membranes

          -  At-risk for spontaneous preterm delivery

          -  Received full course of corticosteroids within the previous 7 days

        Exclusion criteria:

          -  Diagnosis of fetal lung maturity

          -  Chorioamnionitis

          -  Non-reassuring fetal testing

          -  Known major fetal anomaly

          -  Corticosteroid therapy, other than qualifying course

          -  Insulin dependent diabetes

          -  Active preterm labor at the time of randomization

          -  Delivery intended outside center

          -  Participation in any intervention study which influences neonatal morbidity or
             mortality

          -  Previous participation in this trial
      
