TITLE:
Chemotherapy Decisions and Outcomes in Older Women With Newly Diagnosed Breast Cancer

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
psychosocial assessment and care

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Studying how older women make treatment decisions and how these decisions affect
      the outcome of treatment may help doctors plan more effective treatments and improve patient
      quality of life.

      PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying how a patient's treatment preferences and decisions
      about chemotherapy affect the outcome of treatment in older women with newly diagnosed
      breast cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the relationship between preferences and chemotherapy decisions in women age
           65 and over with operable, newly diagnosed breast cancer.

        -  Determine how factors that could be targets for intervention affect the relationship
           between preferences and chemotherapy decisions in these patients.

        -  Determine the relationships between preference-based chemotherapy decisions, quality of
           life, and satisfaction with treatment decisions in these patients.

        -  Determine the disease-free survival and competing causes of mortality of these
           patients.

        -  Determine the types of physician providers who care for older breast cancer survivors
           after initial cancer treatment is completed and explore how women decide about which
           physicians to see.

        -  Measure quality indicators for the survivorship phase of care and evaluate if quality
           varies by type of physician provider model.

        -  Determine if long-term patient-reported satisfaction varies as a function of physician
           model for providing follow-up care post-treatment.

        -  Determine whether physician-patient communication and coordination of care after
           treatment ends mediate follow-up quality and outcomes post-treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a cohort study.

      Patients participate in interviews over 30-45 minutes at baseline, at 6 months, and at 1 and
      2 years.

      Patients are followed annually for at least 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,296 patients will be accrued for this study within 18-24
      months.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Female
Age: 65 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed primary adenocarcinoma of the breast

               -  Operable disease

               -  Invasive and unilateral tumor

               -  No more than 20 weeks since diagnosis

               -  T1-4 (tumor size  1 cm), N0, M0 OR

               -  T1-4, N1-3, M0

          -  No prior carcinoma in situ, lobular carcinoma in situ, ductal carcinoma in situ, or
             invasive breast cancer

          -  Hormone receptor status:

               -  Any estrogen receptor status

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  65 and over

        Sex

          -  Female

        Other

          -  No other malignancy except those for which the patient has completed treatment AND is
             considered to be at less than 30% risk of recurrence

          -  History of non-melanoma skin cancer allowed

          -  Sufficient cognitive function to consent to and complete interviews

          -  English or Spanish speaking
      
