TITLE:
Lonafarnib, Trastuzumab, and Paclitaxel in Treating Patients With HER2/Neu-Overexpressing Stage IIIB, Stage IIIC, or Stage IV Breast Cancer

CONDITION:
Breast Cancer

INTERVENTION:
trastuzumab

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop
      tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Lonafarnib may stop the growth of
      tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such
      as trastuzumab, can locate tumor cells and either kill them or deliver tumor-killing
      substances to them without harming normal cells. Combining lonafarnib and trastuzumab with
      paclitaxel may kill more tumor cells.

      PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of lonafarnib when
      given together with trastuzumab and paclitaxel in treating patients with
      HER2/neu-overexpressing stage IIIB, stage IIIC, or stage IV breast cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of lonafarnib in
           combination with trastuzumab (Herceptin) and paclitaxel in patients with
           HER2/neu-overexpressing stage IIIB, IIIC, or IV breast cancer.

        -  Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetic profiles of these drugs in these patients.

        -  Correlate the pharmacodynamics with the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these
           patients.

        -  Correlate the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of this regimen with observed
           toxicity in these patients.

        -  Determine the response to this regimen in patients with measurable disease.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study of
      lonafarnib.

        -  Course 1: Patients receive a loading dose of trastuzumab (Herceptin) IV over 90
           minutes on day 1 and over 30 minutes on days 8 and 15. Patients also receive paclitaxel
           IV over 3 hours on day 1.

        -  Course 2: Patients receive trastuzumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 and
           paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 2. Patients also receive oral lonafarnib twice daily
           on days 3-21.

        -  Course 3 and all subsequent courses: Patients receive oral lonafarnib twice daily on
           days 1-21; trastuzumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15; and paclitaxel IV over
           3 hours on day 1.

      Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of lonafarnib until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 8 weeks until disease progression.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-36 patients will be accrued for this study.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed breast cancer

               -  Stage IIIB, IIIC, or IV

          -  HER2/neu overexpression

               -  3+ by immunohistochemistry

                    -  2+ allowed if positive fluorescent in situ hybridization

          -  Disease meets the following treatment criteria:

               -  Paclitaxel/trastuzumab (Herceptin) may be appropriate therapy

               -  Anthracycline therapy is not a suitable approach

          -  No clinical signs of CNS involvement

          -  Hormone receptor status:

               -  Not specified

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age

          -  18 and over

        Sex

          -  Male or female

        Menopausal status

          -  Not specified

        Performance status

          -  ECOG 0-2 OR

          -  WHO 0-2

        Life expectancy

          -  Not specified

        Hematopoietic

          -  Neutrophil count at least 1,500/mm^3

          -  Platelet count at least 100,000/mm^3

          -  Hemoglobin at least 10.0 g/dL (6.2 mmol/L)

        Hepatic

          -  Bilirubin no greater than 1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)

          -  Alkaline phosphatase less than 2.5 times ULN (5 times ULN if liver metastases are
             present)

          -  AST and ALT less than 2.5 times ULN (5 times ULN if liver metastases are present)

        Renal

          -  Creatinine clearance at least 40 mL/min

        Cardiovascular

          -  Cardiac ejection fraction normal by MUGA

          -  QTc interval no greater than 440 msec

          -  No cardiac dysfunction

        Other

          -  Not pregnant or nursing

          -  Negative pregnancy test

          -  Fertile patients must use effective contraception during and for up to 3 months after
             study participation

          -  No concurrent severe/unstable systemic disease

          -  No infection

          -  No circumstances that would preclude study participation (e.g., alcoholism or
             substance abuse)

          -  No psychological, familial, sociological, or geographical condition that would
             preclude study compliance and follow-up

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Biologic therapy

          -  More than 1 year since prior trastuzumab

          -  No concurrent prophylactic growth factors

        Chemotherapy

          -  More than 1 year since prior paclitaxel

          -  More than 4 weeks since other prior chemotherapy

        Endocrine therapy

          -  More than 1 day since prior hormonal therapy

          -  More than 2 days since prior high-dose chronic steroids

          -  More than 2 days since prior ethinyl estradiol

          -  No concurrent high-dose chronic steroids

          -  No concurrent ethinyl estradiol

        Radiotherapy

          -  More than 4 weeks since prior radiotherapy

        Surgery

          -  Not specified

        Other

          -  More than 2 days since prior administration of and no concurrent CYP3A4 inducers or
             inhibitors, including any of the following:

               -  Gestodene

               -  Itraconazole

               -  Ketoconazole

               -  Cimetidine

               -  Erythromycin

               -  Carbamazepine

               -  Phenobarbital

               -  Phenytoin

               -  Rifampin

               -  Sulfinpyrazone

          -  No concurrent grapefruit juice

          -  No other concurrent anticancer agents

          -  No other concurrent investigational therapy
      
