TITLE:
Vertebroplasty for the Treatment of Fractures Due to Osteoporosis

CONDITION:
Spinal Fractures

INTERVENTION:
Percutaneous vertebroplasty

SUMMARY:

      Vertebroplasty is a procedure used to stabilize broken vertebrae, the bones that form the
      spine. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of vertebroplasty for the treatment of
      fractures due to osteoporosis.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Spontaneous, atraumatic compression fractures due to osteoporosis occur in more than 700,000
      patients per year. Pain associated with these fractures may be excruciating, but before the
      advent of percutaneous vertebroplasty, treatment options were limited. Analgesic
      medications, bed rest, and bracing have been the mainstays of treatment, but each of these
      therapies has substantial limitations.

      Because of the dearth of viable treatment options for osteoporotic vertebral compression
      fractures, the practice of percutaneous vertebroplasty, which involves injection of
      polymethylmethacrylate (medical cement) into the fractured vertebra, has disseminated
      rapidly. However, evidence for the efficacy of percutaneous vertebroplasty is currently
      limited to uncontrolled, nonblinded, small case studies. Even though high rates of success
      are reported, with up to 90% of patients achieving substantial pain relief, these case
      studies have not accounted for numerous important potential biases, including the natural
      tendency for compression fractures to heal spontaneously, regression toward the mean
      (wherein patients seek medical attention when pain is maximum), and the placebo effect. This
      study will examine the clinical efficacy of percutaneous vertebroplasty for treatment of
      painful osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures.

      Participants in this study will be randomly assigned to receive either percutaneous
      vertebroplasty or a sham procedure (placebo control group). Participants may have up to 2
      spinal levels treated. Participants will be enrolled in the study for 1 year and will have
      study visits at entry and Months 1 and 12. There will also be phone visits at Days 1, 2, 3,
      and 14 and Months 3 and 6. After Month 1, crossover from the placebo group to the
      vertebroplasty group will be allowed.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 50 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Confirmed osteoporosis or osteopenia by a referring physician and/or medical history
             and physical exam OR osteopenia on plain film

          -  Vertebral compression fracture in vertebrae T4 through L5, of less than 1 year old

          -  Pain not responsive to standard medical therapy

          -  Current rating for pain intensity of at least 3 on a scale of 0 to 10

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Evidence or suspicion of malignant tumor or spinal canal compromise

          -  Concomitant hip fracture

          -  Local or systemic infection

          -  Uncorrectable bleeding diatheses

          -  Surgery within the previous 60 days

          -  Lack of access to telephone

          -  Inability to communicate in English

          -  Dementia

          -  Pregnancy

          -  Abnormal renal function or anticipated venography

          -  Conscious sedation is contraindicated for subject
      
