TITLE:
Phase I/II Study of CAMPATH in Patients With Relapsing or Refractory Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma

CONDITION:
Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma

INTERVENTION:
alemtuzumab

SUMMARY:

      The purpose of this study is to determine the optimal dose of Campath for patients with
      relapsing or refractory (failed standard therapy) non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The study will
      also evaluate the safety of the drug and whether it is effective in treating these patients.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This study is being conducted in 2 parts with the primary objective of part 1 being to
      determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of CAMPATH (alemtuzumab, MABCAMPATH, CAMPATH)
      administered intravenously (IV) once a week as treatment for relapsing or refractory
      non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). The primary objective of part 2 is to determine the overall
      response rate (complete response, CR/unconfirmed , plus partial response) of weekly IV
      CAMPATH in the treatment of relapsing or refractory NHL. This is a Phase I/II study,
      open-label, multicenter study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of weekly IV CAMPATH as
      therapy for patients with relapsing or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria: Patients must have:

          -  Pathologically confirmed diagnosis of relapsing or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
             that has failed conventional therapy.

          -  Measurable disease (lesions that can be accurately measured by CT scan and a greatest
             transverse diameter larger or equal to 1 cm or palpable lesions that both diameters
             larger or equal to 2 cm).

          -  Life expectancy of at least 12 weeks. - World Health Organization (WHO) performance
             status (PS) of 0, 1, or 2.

          -  Adequate marrow and organ function (details are listed in the protocol).

          -  Female patients with childbearing potential must have a negative serum pregnancy test
             within 2 weeks prior to enrollment. Male and female patients must agree to use an
             effective contraceptive method while on study treatment, if appropriate, and for a
             minimum of 6 months following study therapy.

          -  Signed, written informed consent.

        Exclusion Criteria: Patients must not have:

          -  Prior autologous bone marrow or stem cell transplant within 6 months of study entry.

          -  A history of prior allogeneic bone marrow transplant or organ transplant.

          -  Previously untreated non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

          -  Previously treated with CAMPATH.

          -  Patients with bulky disease, ie any single mass > 7.5cm.

          -  Prior radiotherapy to the only site of measurable disease.

          -  Medical condition requiring chronic use of oral, high-dose corticosteroids.

          -  Autoimmune thrombocytopenia.

          -  Use of investigational agents within previous 30 days or any anti-cancer therapy
             within the previous 3 weeks. Patients must have recovered from all acute toxicities
             of any prior therapy.

          -  Past history of anaphylaxis following exposure to humanized monoclonal antibodies.

          -  Active, uncontrolled infection, including human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
             positive.

          -  Active secondary malignancy.

          -  Active central nervous system (CNS) involvement with NHL.

          -  Pregnant or lactating women. Male or female patients who do not agree to use
             effective contraceptive method(s) during the study.

          -  Any significant concurrent disease or illness that would, in the opinion of the
             investigator, compromise patient safety or compliance, or interfere with the
             interpretation of study results.
      
