TITLE:
Safety/Efficacy Study of Immunoconjugate With Docetaxel in Non-small Cell Lung Carcinoma

CONDITION:
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung

INTERVENTION:
SGN-15

SUMMARY:

      This randomized phase II clinical trial evaluates the combination of a monoclonal
      antibody-based drug (SGN-15) with a chemotherapeutic agent compared to chemotherapy given
      alone in patients with non-small cell lung cancer that has failed at least one prior
      systemic therapy. The objective of the study is to determine the safety and clinical
      benefit, as measured by tumor response and quality of life, to the combination regimen.

      Monoclonal antibody therapy has been used in other types of cancer to target therapy to the
      tumor, thereby allowing for the chemotherapeutic agent to have a lesser effect on normal,
      healthy tissue.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Patients with pathologically confirmed NSCLC which is metastatic or recurrent
        (non-resectable), who have failed at least one but no more than two prior therapies for
        advanced stage disease or have a recurrence within 6 months of completing adjuvant
        chemotherapy.

        Lewis-y antigen expression documented by immunohistochemistry for all patients.

        Patients must have:

          -  Bidimensionally or unidimensionally measurable disease on the basis of physical exam
             or imaging studies, or

          -  Evaluable disease: bone metastases defined on bone scan or malignant pleural effusion

        Performance status  2 (ECOG scale) with a life expectancy of at least 3 months

        Patients must be at least four weeks from prior treatment (chemotherapy, hormonal therapy,
        or definitive radiotherapy)

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Prior therapy with TAXOTERE (docetaxel)

        Cumulative anthracycline exposure > 300 mg/m2.

        More than one primary malignancy with the exception of:

          -  Non-melanoma skin cancer

          -  In situ carcinoma of the cervix

          -  Localized prostate cancer

          -  Completely resected stage I or II disease with no evidence of recurrent cancer from
             which the patient has remained disease free for more than 3 years.

        Uncontrolled significant non-malignant disease (e.g. congestive heart failure, bleeding,
        renal failure, hepatic failure).

        Uncontrolled, symptomatic brain metastasis.

        Peripheral neuropathy > grade 2.

        Concomitant therapy with other anti-neoplastic agents or experimental agents except for
        small volume radiation to a solitary bony metastasis.

        Active viral, bacterial or systemic fungal infections including known HIV or Hepatitis B
        or C.

        Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding

        Any serious underlying medical condition, which would impair the ability of the patient to
        receive the planned treatment including prior allergic reactions to recombinant human or
        murine proteins.

        Dementia or altered mental status that would prohibit the understanding and rendering of
        informed consent.

        Patients with uncontrolled peptic ulcer disease will be excluded.
      
