TITLE:
Surgery Versus Internal Radiation in Treating Patients With Stage II Prostate Cancer

CONDITION:
Prostate Cancer

INTERVENTION:
surgery

SUMMARY:

      RATIONALE: Internal radiation uses radioactive material placed directly into or near a tumor
      to kill tumor cells. It is not yet known whether surgery is more effective than internal
      radiation in treating prostate cancer.

      PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of surgery with that of
      internal radiation in treating patients who have stage II prostate cancer.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare overall survival in patients with stage II prostate cancer treated with radical
           prostatectomy vs brachytherapy.

        -  Compare metastasis-free survival and probability of survival without symptoms of
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the side effects of these treatment regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo radical prostatectomy.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo brachytherapy with implanted iodine I 125 or palladium Pd 103
           seeds Patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,980 patients (990 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 5.5 years.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: Male
Age: N/A to 75 Years
Criteria:

        DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:

          -  Histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the prostate within the past 120 days

               -  T1c-T2a, N0, M0

          -  No bilateral disease

          -  Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) no greater than 10 ng/mL

               -  In patients with prior neoadjuvant hormonal therapy (NHT), PSA must be less than
                  10 ng/mL prior to therapy

          -  Gleason score no greater than 6

          -  Prostate gland less than 60 cc on transrectal ultrasound or with minimal pubic arch
             interference OR

          -  Prostate gland 60 cc or greater prior to NHT allowed if prostate size has been
             reduced to less than 60 cc by NHT

        PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:

        Age:

          -  75 and under

        Performance status:

          -  ECOG 0-2 OR

          -  Zubrod 0-2

        Renal:

          -  Creatinine no greater than 3 mg/dL

        Cardiovascular:

          -  No significant cardiovascular disease

          -  No New York Heart Association class III or IV heart disease

        Other:

          -  No other malignancy within the past 5 years except effectively treated basal cell or
             squamous cell skin cancer or other malignancy at low risk for recurrence

          -  No other condition that would preclude study

        PRIOR CONCURRENT THERAPY:

        Endocrine therapy:

          -  See Disease Characteristics

          -  At least 90 days since prior NHT

               -  Duration of therapy no greater than 120 days

          -  No concurrent NHT

        Radiotherapy:

          -  No prior radiotherapy to pelvis

        Surgery:

          -  No prior surgery for prostate cancer or benign disease, including:

               -  Transurethral resection of the prostate

               -  Transurethral resection of the bladder neck

               -  Cryotherapy

               -  Laser ablation

               -  Microwave therapy
      
