TITLE:
Stem Cell Transplant for Patients With Blood Malignancy Using Donors and Less Toxic Chemotherapy With CAMPATH 1H

CONDITION:
Myelodysplastic Disorders

INTERVENTION:
FLUDARABINE

SUMMARY:

      1. To assess the treatment related mortality of allogeneic stem cell transplantation with
           non-myeloablative therapy incorporating the lymphodepleting MAb CAMPATH-1H, in patients
           with hematological diseases and renal cell carcinoma not eligible for conventional
           (myeloablative) therapy.

        2. To assess the time to engraftment and incidence of graft failure in patients receiving
           this transplant regimen.

        3. To assess the safety, pharmacokinetics and immunologic activity of CAMPATH-1H when used
           as part of a subablative conditioning regimen.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      This is a two arm study in which outcomes will be assessed independently in recipients of
      HLA matched sibling transplants and recipients of unrelated or mismatched family donor
      transplants, although both groups will receive identical treatments.

      The following will be given to the patient after admission:

      Day - 6: Total body irradiation

      Day - 5 to - 2: Fludarabine and Campath 1H

      Day - 1: Day of rest

      Day 0: Stem cell transplant (infusion)
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: N/A to 70 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion criteria

          1. Diagnosis of myelodysplastic disorders, Acute Myelogenous Leukemia, Acute
             Lymphoblastic Leukemia, Multiple Myeloma, Plasma Cell Dyscrasia, Lymphoproliferative
             disorders (Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma, Hairy Cell Leukemia, Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
             and Hodgkins Disease) or Renal Cell Carcinoma.

          2. Conditions that increase treatment related mortality (need one or more to be
             eligible):

               1. Greater to or equal to 50 years of age.

               2. EF of less than 45%

               3. DLCO less than 50% of FEV1 50-75% of predicted value.

               4. Diabetes Mellitus

               5. Renal Insufficiency (but creatine clearance not less than 25ml/min).

               6. Prior recent history of systemic fungal infection.

               7. 3rd or greater remission of AML or ALL

               8. More than 1 year of diagnosis (CML or Myeloma patients)

               9. Multiple types of treatment regimens. (equal to or more than 3)

              10. Prior autologous or allogeneic stem cell transplantation.

              11. Significant grade III or IV neurologic or hepatic toxicity from previous
                  treatment.

              12. No matched sibling donor.

          3. Available healthy donor without any contraindications for donation. 5/6 or 6/6
             related donor. 5/6 or 6/6 unrelated donor (molecular typing for DRB1)

          4. Patient and/or responsible person able to understand consent.

          5. Age between birth and 70 years.

          6. For women of childbearing potential, negative pregnancy test.

        Exclusion criteria

          1. Patient is pregnant, lactating or unwilling to use contraceptives

          2. HIV positive patient

          3. Uncontrolled intercurrent infection

          4. Refractory AML, or ALL

          5. Untreated Blast Crisis for CML

          6. Uncontrolled High-grade lymphoproliferative disease/lymphoma.

          7. Unstable angina and uncompensated congestive heart failure (Zubrod of 3 or greater)

          8. Severe chronic pulmonary disease requiring oxygen (Zubrod of 3 or greater)

          9. Hemodialysis dependent

         10. Active Hepatitis or cirrhosis with total bilirubin, SGOT, and SGPT greater than 3 x
             normal.

         11. Unstable Cerebral vascular disease and recent hemorrhagic stroke (less than 6 months)

         12. Active CNS disease from hematological disorder.
      
