TITLE:
ISIS 104838, an Inhibitor of Tumor Necrosis Factor, for Active Rheumatoid Arthritis

CONDITION:
Rheumatoid Arthritis

INTERVENTION:
ISIS 104838

SUMMARY:

      ISIS 104838 is an antisense oligonucleotide drug that reduces the production of a specific
      protein called tumor necrosis factor (TNF-alpha), a substance that contributes to joint pain
      and swelling in rheumatoid arthritis. ISIS 104838 works by blocking TNF-alpha messenger RNA,
      the "instruction" molecule that is required for the production of TNF-alpha protein. This
      trial will assess the safety and efficacy of ISIS 1048383 by subcutaneous injection,
      administered by 3 different dosing regimens for 3 months, versus placebo. Approximately 160
      TNF-alpha inhibitor-nave rheumatoid arthritis patients will be evaluated at 32 sites in the
      U.S. and Canada.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 18 Years to N/A
Criteria:

        Inclusion Criteria

          1. Age >/= 18 years.

          2. Rheumatoid arthritis for >/= 6 months.

          3. Active disease as defined by >/= 6 swollen and >/= 9 tender joints, AND an abnormal
             C-reactive protein or Westergren Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate lab test, OR Morning
             Stiffness >/= 1 hour.

          4. Use of at least one DMARD, and ability to discontinue any current DMARD.

        Exclusion Criteria

          1. Onset of rheumatoid arthritis before the 16th birthday.

          2. Wheelchair or bed-bound functional level.

          3. No previous infliximab or etanercept treatment, or investigational therapy (not
             placebo) with other TNF-alpha inhibitors.

          4. Prednisone > 10 mg per day or more than one nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug.

          5. Patients with an active infection, a history of tuberculosis, multiple sclerosis,
             other poorly controlled medical illness, or a malignancy within the last 5 years.

          6. Patients who require intravenous heparin therapy or with a history of a bleeding
             problem.
      
