TITLE:
Treating Drug-Resistant Childhood Schizophrenia

CONDITION:
Schizophrenia

INTERVENTION:
Olanzapine

SUMMARY:

      This study will compare clozapine and olanzapine (Zyprexa) for the treatment of children
      and adolescents who have failed standard antipsychotic treatment for schizophrenia.
    

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:

      Schizophrenia is a devastating illness regardless of the age at which it presents. When this
      disorder occurs in childhood or adolescence, the consequences in terms of functional
      impairment, loss of developmental opportunities, and family and societal burden are
      particularly dramatic.

      Evidence supports the improved efficacy and/or side effect profile of atypical antipsychotic
      medication in adults. Thus, it is essential to examine whether the potential benefits of
      these agents can be extended to children, particularly children who have failed standard
      treatment.

      Patients are randomly assigned to receive either clozapine or olanzapine daily for 12 weeks.
      Patients meet with the study team once a week to discuss progress and record side effects.
      Three parent meetings take place during the study. During these meetings, questions are
      discussed and support and education about schizophrenia are given to parents. Various scales
      to measure psychotic, manic, aggressive, and depressive symptoms are used to assess
      patients.
    

ELIGIBILITY:
Gender: All
Age: 10 Years to 18 Years
Criteria:

        Inclusion criteria:

          -  DSM-IV criteria for treatment-refractory schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder

          -  Willingness to use an acceptable form of birth control, if applicable

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Neurological or medical disorders that would contraindicate treatment with clozapine
             or olanzapine

          -  IQ less than 70

          -  DSM-IV criteria for substance (other than caffeine or nicotine) related disorder

          -  Failure of an adequate trial of olanzapine or clozapine
      
